Title: Remarks and an Exchange With Reporters at Joint Base Andrews, Maryland
Date: October 31, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-and-exchange-with-reporters-joint-base-andrews-maryland-10

The President. So we're heading down to Florida. I have a lot of meetings there and lunches, meetings—a lot of things having to do with the economics of America.

We took in approximately $3 trillion over the last few days from the trips that we made. They were unbelievable. The deal with China is going to be wonderful. I think it's going to be long-lasting. I got, really, along with President Xi very well, as you saw. And you were there. Many of you were there. And I think it's great. I think it's great. I think it's really good.

Are you—are you set? Are you okay?

Q. I'm sorry, I'm not getting any audio for the pool camera.

The President. Oh, okay. Well, let's get it right.

Q. All right, we have it now, sir.

The President. Okay. So the trip was fantastic. We took in over $3 trillion—really in profit, if you want to define it that way. You see the farmers are very happy. I think it's 25 million tons, but it's numbers that they've never seen before, in terms of the soybeans, in terms of other things.

We have numbers coming to our farmers that the farmers have never seen before, from China. Our farmers are very happy. I suggested they go out and buy larger tractors and more land. Okay? We want larger tractors and more land, because nobody has ever seen anything like it.

I've given China great incentives to hold down the fentanyl, get rid of it, ideally. You know, a lot of people don't know it's used as an anesthesia. It's used as a lot of things. A lot of good things happen. But unfortunately, when it's developed a certain way, a lot of bad things happen. Because a lot of people would say, "Well, why is it made?" I mean, it's made for a lot of good purposes, but it also has some very bad purposes when you design it a certain way, and people can take it and design it.

So China is working very hard on that. I really believe that. And they have an incentive. I'd love to get rid of the extra 10 percent. I put a 20-percent penalty on. Had a great conversation about it with President Xi yesterday. And I'd love to get rid of the other. As soon as we see that, we'll get rid of the other 10 percent.

Other than that, we haven't cut the tariffs at all with China. But we're going to have a great relationship with them, I think, for a long period of time. If we have a smart President, we'll have a great relationship. If we don't have a smart President, which is also a very strong possibility, then we won't have a great relationship.

But China is—the meeting with China was incredible. The meeting with Japan, incredible. And the meeting with South Korea, likewise, incredible. All of them.

And trillions of dollars are coming back to our country because of those meetings. And we have others planned with other countries, but those are big ones. And the meeting with China was one that everybody wanted.

The meeting with the new Prime Minister, who's fantastic, of Japan could not have gone better. We've worked out our deal.

And South Korea, you saw the way we were treated.

Our country is respected again. When they treat me with that kind of respect, they're treating our country with that kind of respect, which is much more important. And our country is respected again.

Do you have any questions?

[At this point, several reporters began asking questions at once.]

Venezuela

Q. There are reports that you are considering strikes within Venezuela. Is that true——

The President. No.

Q. ——that you made a decision on that?

The President. No, it's not true.

U.S. Resumption of Nuclear Testing

Q. Mr. President, on the nuclear strikes—sorry, the nuclear tests that you were talking about, are you talking about literally resuming underground nuclear detonation tests?

The President. You'll find out very soon, but we're going to do some testing. Yes. Other countries do it. If they're going to do it, we're going to do it.

Q. But you can't clarify whether we'll resume——

The President. I'm not going to say yet. I mean, I know exactly what we're doing, where we're doing it. But other countries are doing it. And if other countries do it, we do it.

Counterterrorism Efforts

Q. Mr. President, on the FBI thwarting that possible—that terrorist attack in Michigan that was set to happen over the weekend, Halloween weekend. The FBI thwarted that.

The President. We're catching people before they ever start. Yes. We're catching them.

Prime Minister Viktor Orbán of Hungary

Q. Mr. President, your response to Viktor Orbán saying he will ask for an exemption from U.S. sanctions on Russian oil?

The President. He has asked for an exemption. We haven't granted one, but he has asked—Viktor. He's a friend of mine. He's asked for an exemption.

What else?

Q. Mr. President, on Venezuela——

The President. Yes, please.

Prime Minister Mark Carney of Canada/Tariffs

Q. What did you talk with—what did you talk about with Prime Minister Carney? Are you and Canada going to resume negotiations?

The President. No, but I—have a very good relationship. I like him a lot, but you know what they did was wrong. He was very nice, and he apologized for what they did with the commercial, because it was a false commercial. You know, it was the exact opposite. Ronald Reagan loved tariffs, and they tried to make it look the other way. And he did apologize, and I appreciated it.

We had a great dinner, you know, with other countries, as you know. And I think we have a very good relationship, personally. I think that what they did was wrong, but he apologized.

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Benefits

Q. On those SNAP benefits set to expire tomorrow, folks are talking about putting out canned goods and nonperishables for trick-or-treaters. Is there a possibility, like you did with the military, moving around funds—is there a possibility to do that for millions of Americans?

The President. Well, there always is. But all the Democrats have to do is say let's go. I mean, you know, they don't have to do anything. They don't have to agree. All they have to do is say the Government is open. And we only need five Democrats.

But they're—you know, they've become a radical-left party—they really have. They've become a very radical left partner. And they've lost their minds. They've lost their minds. All they have to do is say the Government is open, and that's the end of it.

And you know, largely, when you talk about SNAP, you're talking about, largely, Democrats. But I'm President; I want to help everybody. I want to help Democrats and the Republicans. But when you're talking about SNAP, if you look, it's largely Democrats. They're hurting their own people.

Thank you very much, everybody.
