Title: Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters at a Meeting With Families of Japanese Abductees by North Korea in Tokyo, Japan
Date: October 28, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-exchange-with-reporters-meeting-with-families-japanese-abductees-north-korea-tokyo

The President's Meeting With Families of Abductees

Q. Sir, your message to the families?

The President. We are with the Prime Minister and her strong feeling. She's got tremendous feeling.

And, as you know, I've been here before. Some of the people I've met before. And that goes—it continues. It continues onward. They've been looking for so many years, so long.

But—and I see these beautiful faces. They're so beautiful. Look at the beautiful faces, every one of them. I see a note for me even. It's very nice.

But I've met the families before, and I'm with them all the way. And the U.S. is with them all the way. And with—we're with Japan and the Prime Minister.

State Affairs Commission President Kim Jong Un of North Korea

Q. Mr. President, do you think you'll be able to talk with Kim Jong Un about the abductions?

The President. Say it.

Q. Do you think you'll be able to talk with Kim Jong Un about the abductions on this trip?

The President. We'll see what's going on, yes. We're going to see.

Q. Have you heard any more from him?

The President. We're going to see what's going on. We have not done anything. We've been so busy. We really haven't, but we'll be discussing it.

We always have this in mind because of—it started with Shinzo Abe, and now the Prime Minister—who's going to be a great Prime Minister, by the way, and it's my honor to be with you again, and we will do everything within our power.

Thank you all very much. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you.

Please.

Thank you very much. Appreciate it.

[At this point, a participant showed the President a photograph.]

Wow. [Inaudible] He was great. Great. He was great.

Thank you all very much. Beautiful. So beautiful.

Thank you. Thank you.

[The President spoke with participants.]

[Inaudible] No, we'll get it done. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody.

[A participant showed the President a framed note.]

Beautiful. Who wrote that? Who wrote that? That's very nice. [Laughter] I remember. I remember all of these beautiful faces.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. We continue to work with your Prime Minister. Thank you very much.

Thank you, everybody, very much.

Japanese Defense Spending Level

Q. Mr. President, did you ask the Prime Minister to boost defense spending, sir?

The President. They're doing that.

Q. Sufficiently?

The President. Yes.
