Title: Remarks and an Exchange With Reporters Prior to Departure for Joint Base Andrews, Maryland
Date: November 22, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-and-exchange-with-reporters-prior-departure-for-joint-base-andrews-maryland

[Several reporters began asking questions at once.]

The President. Hello, everybody.

So we're going to Andrews Air Force Base to do some work, especially for our great Air Force. We're doing some fix-up of the base, which it needs. We're going to try and reinstitute the golf courses. I'm meeting with the great Jack Nicklaus, the greatest person. And he's involved in trying to bring their recreational facility back.

It was a great place that has been destroyed over the years through lack of maintenance, so we'll fix that up. Jack will be the architect, and he'll design it. Two existing courses that are in very bad shape. So we can, for very little money, fix it up for the Air Force base. And we're looking at other things over at Andrews.

So we're going to be stopping—it won't be too long—we'll be stopping over there. I think some of you will be there.

And the economy, as you saw, some incredible numbers came in. Investment in our country is bigger than ever before by a factor of two or three. And that means a lot of things are being built, and a lot of plants will be opening very soon.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene

Q. On Congresswoman Taylor Greene. I know that, before, you had a fight with Elon Musk and you guys were able to work it out. Could we see the same——

The President. No, I get along with everybody.

Q. Could we see the same thing happening with—between you and Congresswoman Taylor Greene?

The President. Sure. Why not. I mean, I get along with everybody.

Ukraine/Russia

Q. Mr. President, Senator Graham called out—said that your Russia-Ukraine plan is "problematic." Is this your final offer to Ukraine?

The President. No, not my——

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

No, we'd like to get the peace. It should have been—it should have happened a long time ago.

The Ukraine war with Russia should have never happened. If I were President, it never would have happened.

Q. Sir——

The President. We're trying to get it ended. One way or the other, we have to get it ended. So we're working on it.

Q. [Inaudible]—President Zelenskyy—[inaudible]——

The President. Well, then he can continue—then he can continue to fight his little heart out.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Former President Jair Messias Bolsonaro of Brazil

Q. Do you have any comment about Bolsonaro's arrest?

The President. Say it?

Q. Do you have any comment about Bolsonaro's arrest? Former Brazilian President.

The President. So I spoke last night to the gentleman you just referred to, and we're going to be meeting, I believe, in the very near future.

Q. Sir, are you willing to——

Q. Any comment about the former Brazilian President being arrested today?

The President. What?

Q. Any comment about the former Brazilian President being arrested today?

The President. No, I don't know anything about it. I haven't heard about it.

Q. Mr. President, are you willing——

The President. I didn't hear—is that what happened?

Q. Yes. There's a—[inaudible].

The President. That's too bad. That's too bad.

Q. Do you have any comment, Mr. President?

The President. That's too bad. No, I just think it's too bad.

New York City/National Guard

Q. Do you still plan to deploy the National Guard to New York City? Do you still plan to deploy the National Guard to New York City?

The President. If they need it. Right now other places need it more. But if they need—we had a very good meeting yesterday. We talked about that. But if they need it, I would do it.

Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene/Representative Thomas H. Massie

Q. Mr. President, are you willing—are you willing to forgive Congresswoman Taylor Greene?

The President. Forgive for what? No, we just—I just disagreed with her philosophy. She started backing perhaps the worst Republican Congressman in our history, this—you know, a stupid person named Massie. And I said, "Go your own way." And once I left her, she resigned because she wouldn't have—she would never have survived a primary. But I think she's a nice person.

Okay. Thank you very much.
