Title: Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the Kennedy Center Honors Ceremony
Date: December 07, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-exchange-with-reporters-prior-the-kennedy-center-honors-ceremony

Q. Mr. President, Mr. President——

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. Sir, this is one of the most prestigious nights in American arts, and you are hosting, I understand, tonight. The first President to do that. What does this mean to you personally, also as the Chairman of the Kennedy Center?

The President. Well, it's very exciting being chairman, but maybe more importantly, saving this incredible structure and building and concept. And it's done so well. You know, we've raised a tremendous amount of money tonight for the building itself and for the—for charities, overall.

And we're really happy. It's been a—I mean, you see the way it's been received. It's been like it's never been before. And this building—this beautiful building is going to be brought back to life. We've already started. And it will be better than it was from day one.

[At this point, several reporters began asking questions at once.]

Kennedy Center Honors

Q. Tonight's honors represent storytelling of American legends. What do these Honorees represent to you tonight here at the Kennedy Center?

The President. Well, we have great Honorees. This is a group that really is unique. I think it's one of the—I mean, look, ever the years, I've been watching, and you've had some wonderful Honorees, but I think this is really very much unparalleled.

So we're going to see how it turns out. I think it's going to be a great evening.

Q. And, First Lady Melania, can I ask you about your upcoming video? Can you tell us anything about that, your film?

The First Lady. My film will be out on January 30. So, I'm looking forward to it, and I hope people will come and see it. It will be 20 days in my busy life before Inauguration.

District of Columbia Public Safety

Q. We look forward to seeing that. And what does tonight mean to you? You have celebrated the arts and design as part of your journey. Tell us what tonight means to you here at the Kennedy Center.

The President. Well, it really means we're bringing back the Capital, Washington, DC. If you look back a year ago, it was a very unsafe place—beautiful, but unsafe. But it wasn't properly kept. It was not in good condition. Now it's in very good condition. And, as you know, crime has been brought down to a level that nobody's ever seen here before. So we're very proud of that.

Thank you very much.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Q. Mr. President, what do you think of the Netflix-Warner Brothers deal?

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. Will it eventually be named the Trump-Kennedy Center, Mr. President? Do you think——

The President. Say it.

Q. Do you think this center will eventually be named the Trump-Kennedy Center?

The President. I don't know. I hear that, but I don't know, and that's not up to me. That's up to the Board. The Board makes that decision. We have a very prestigious Board. If you look at the names, I don't think there's a board like it. So that would be up to the Board.

Thank you.

Q. Are you willing to take a foreign policy question?

The President. Say it.

Q. Foreign policy question?

The President. Well, I think maybe not tonight. You know?

Q. Russia-Ukraine?

The President. Yes. This is about the Kennedy Center, okay? Thank you.

Netflix/Warner Brothers

Q. What about—what about Netflix and Warner Brothers?

The President. Well, that's got to go through a process, and we'll see what happens. It's Netflix, a great company. They've done a phenomenal job. Ted is a fantastic man. I have a lot of respect for him, but it's a lot of market share. So we'll have to see what happens.

Future Kennedy Center Honorees

Q. President Trump, who's on your list for next year's——

Q. Yes, who's next year?

Q. ——Kennedy Center Honors event?

The President. Actually, I looked at a list today. I can't tell you that yet. [Laughter] But a lot of people want to be on my list. You'd like to be on the list. [Laughter]

The President's Hosting Duties for the Kennedy Center Honors

Q. I don't know about that, but I have a question for you, Mr. President. How have you prepared to host tonight?

The President. Well, maybe I haven't prepared. Maybe you want to be a little bit loose.

If you look at the great hosts—Johnny Carson, Bob Hope—those are the greats. If you look at the not-so-greats, like Jimmy Kimmel, he was just terrible. But no, I think you—you want to be just loose. And not a lot to prepare for, really.

Q. I've been asked——

The President. You have to be—you know what you have to be? You have to be yourself.

Q. I've been asking your Cabinet tonight, is this going to be more Johnny Carson or Don Rickles?

The President. Well, Don—I knew them both, and they were both great guys and friends of mine. Both difficult. Very difficult. [Laughter] But great. I mean, I was really very close to both of them.

They're—you can't compare them. They were very different.

Q. Why did you want——

The President. But Johnny—Johnny Carson, for hosting, was top of the line.

Fox News Program Host Jesse Watters

Q. President Trump, Jesse Watters has a question for you. What was your favorite moment of 2025? It was a big year.

The President. I think when Jesse Watters interviewed me. [Laughter] It was such a—it was such a phenomenal interview. He's a great guy, and you're a great guy. You're doing a very good job out there. I'm proud of you.

Q. Thank you so much, President Trump. Who is on your naughty list this year?

The President. Oh, that's a long list. [Laughter] I better not tell you. It'd start a problem out there in the world.

No, we have a pretty big naughty list, but our country is doing well. We're the hottest country anywhere in the world right now. And a year ago, we were a dead country. We were a dead country that was laughed at all over the world. We're the hottest country in the world.

Q. What would be the implications——

The President. And Jesse Watters is terrific.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Tariffs/The President's Foreign Policy/Kennedy Center Honors

Q. What would be the implications, Mr. President, of the Supreme Court overturning your authority on—on the tariffs—the emergency authority? What would be the implications for the economy and for the country?

The President. Well, we have a right to go a different form of tariffs. We have a right to go licensing. We have a right to go other ways.

But the form of tariffing, as we call it—the form of—the current form of tariffing that's before the court gives us great national security, more than anything else, because it allows the president to act quickly and effectively, swiftly, and make a decision.

And, as you know, I ended eight wars. We're trying to end a ninth, and we thought this would be maybe one of the easier ones. We just did Rwanda and Congo, and that was going on for 30 years. The Russia-Ukraine I thought was going to be a little bit easier, but it's not being made easy. It's a very tough war. Very nasty. Twenty-seven thousand people died last month. It's mostly soldiers.

I will say that all I—I really think this is really a night of joy tonight, because of what's happening with this building. It's going to be fantastic when you see the end product. It's going to be better than it was new. And I think we'll celebrate that. But I will say that our country is doing really well.

Tariff Revenue

Q. Some Republicans have expressed concern about using the tariffs, the revenue for a dividend, saying we should be paying down the national debt.

The President. Well, we will.

Q. What's your thought on that?

The President. I agree with them on that. But I also think that, you know, we're making so much money with tariffs that we'll also be able to make a nice dividend to middle-income people. We're talking about middle-income and lower income people. We're not talking about dividends to rich people.

But there's so much money being made from the tariffs. And countries that were taking advantage of us for many, many years are not taking advantage of us anymore. We're taking in tremendous amounts of money from countries that we're—we were losing lots of money to.

And you know what? They're okay with it. They're not complaining. They're not complaining about the tariffs. They'd rather not have them, but they're not saying there's anything wrong.

And the big thing is, in the court, we have tremendous flexibility with the current system. It's unbelievable for national security.

I've ended eight wars, largely because of trade and because of tariffs. If we go the other tariff route, and there are other routes we can go, but it won't give you the same pure national security as this one. This one is swift and very powerful.

Russia/Ukraine

Q. Mr. President, what's the next step in Russia-Ukraine talks? What's your next step in Russia-Ukraine talks after last week's negotiations?

The President. So we've been speaking to President Putin, and we've been speaking to Ukrainian leaders, including Zelenskyy—President Zelenskyy. And I have to say that I'm a little bit disappointed that President Zelenskyy hasn't yet read the proposal. That was as of a few hours ago. His people love it, but he hasn't.

Russia is fine with it. Russia is—you know, Russia—Russia, I guess, would rather have the whole country, when you think of it. But Russia is, I believe, fine with it.

But I'm not sure that Zelenskyy is fine with it. His people love it, but he hasn't read it. So, someday you'll explain that one to me, Jeff [Jeff Mason, Reuters].

Q. I don't have an explanation, sir. What's the next step in that?

The President. Raymond [Raymond Arroyo, Fox News], thank you very much. Good job you're doing. Say hello.

Kennedy Center Honoree Actor Sylvester Stallone

Q. Thank you. What would you like to see Sylvester Stallone do as a Hollywood ambassador in Hollywood?

The President. He is automatic, I mean, as far as I'm concerned. He is one of the ambassadors, as you know, and he's already been doing that.

I—look, all he has to do is be himself. If Sly is himself—that's all he can be. If he tries to be somebody else, it wouldn't be good.

He's a great guy. He's done a fantastic job. And he really deserves this honor.

You know, it's something he's wanted for years, and this is bigger than it's ever been. I mean, I don't want to say why. I refuse to say why. [Laughter] But you take a look at this line. Last year, if you look at this line, it was not this. It was a different——

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. Mr. President——

The President. It was a different thing.

Q. ——why are you and the first lady expending so much time, so much energy in revivifying and remaking the Kennedy Center?

The President. It's not the Kennedys'. We're—and we are—look, Bobby, Jr. is doing a fantastic job. It's not the Kennedys'. It's our country. We're bringing our country back, and we're bringing DC back—Washington, DC. We're bringing our capital. It's a safe place now. It was a very unsafe.

Q. No, I mean the Kennedy Center. The center itself. Why are you so focused on revivifying it?

The President. Because it could never be built again. It's got three massive places, call them. You have different stages: dance, theater. And you have a place that we're going to be in tonight that there's really nothing like it in the country. And if this disappeared, you'd never be able to build it again.

And I'm able to save it, because that's what I used to do for a living, really, is—well, maybe better than anybody else. I could take something and spend less money than other people and make it better than anybody else could. The Kennedy Center has a chance to be unbelievable.

And you know, I mentioned yesterday something very important: sound. It's, like, sometimes you could say—like people. You either have it or you don't. Great sound in this building.

A lot of times—and you know the Lincoln Center saga. They've rebuilt one building—most important building. They rebuilt it four times, and they've never been able to produce really great sound.

The sound in the Kennedy Center has been incredible from day one. Call it luck or talent—probably luck. [Laughter] There's a lot of luck involved.

You know, the great sound buildings—the greatest in the world are the old opera houses built in the 17- and 1800s in Europe. And they had one thing that was in common: lots of marble. And they didn't have sound engineers. They had lots of marble. And this is—this is—has got great sound. Even right here in the hallway, the sound is fantastic.

Thank you very much, Raymond.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Kennedy Center Honorees

Q. [Inaudible]—on your personal playlist. I'm just curious to know how they have impacted your own personal enjoyment of art.

The President. Well, are you talking about the five Honorees——

Q. Yes.

The President. ——and the five—the group and the five Honorees?

They are outstanding people. I had to approve them all, and every one of them—very different. I said last night, totally different—totally different audience, but when you add them up, they're 100 percent of our country and a big percentage of the world.

So we have great Honorees. It's going to be a lot of fun. You're going to have a good time tonight.

Thank you.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Q. Mr. President, now, we know that you hosted before—"The Apprentice" for many years. Could you imagine, next year, maybe you're not hosting, but maybe you receiving a Kennedy Center honor?

The President. That's an interesting one. I haven't heard that. [Laughter]

Yes, I think I'm going to nominate myself for next year. [Laughter] I never thought of it. Wow.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

The President's Role in the Kennedy Center Honors Program

Q. Mr. President—Mr. President, every day you have such a big job being the president. How—why was it important for you to actually host the show tonight, and how much time did you spend getting ready for it?

The President. Well, it wasn't important for me, other than if I get much higher ratings, if it's a more successful show, then I'm contributing. I get nothing. I don't make money with it. I don't do anything. It's a little bit of work, not a lot of work. I look forward to doing it.

But the network said, "Would it be possible to get the President to host?" And I love the concept of no President has ever hosted the Kennedy Center Honorees.

And it's very important that this building be great and that this building remain really—you know, I saved the building. We really—you know, we raised a lot of money tonight. Tremendous. Record numbers of dollars. A lot of money. And we've raised over $100 million over the last very short period of time. That's a lot of money.

And that money goes into the rejuvenation and the rebuilding of the building. And a lot of it's already taken place. A lot of the things that you don't see have already taken place.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts/Renovation Work

Q. Mr. President, in your words, as you're saving the building, when will locals who come to the Kennedy Center who live here—when will we start to see all the changes? And do you have a timeline for when this will all be wrapped up?

The President. Yes, I think over the next 4 or 5 months, we're going to have it very well—you see the outside, the columns. They're beautiful. You know, they had a fake gold color, and now they're beautiful, gleaming white. And everyone's talking about that. It sounds like not much of a change. It's a massive change, you know, the white against the white marble. The marble is being rejuvenated. They're great pieces of marble, but they've been let go, and they've been tired.

And I always say, you can take a hundredth of an inch off of a piece of marble and you have a brand-new piece of marble. But nobody does that. It's not an easy process.

But if you look on the outside of the building, people see already a very big difference.

Renovation Work at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. Is the First Lady involved in the style and the change that's happening here?

The President. A little bit, yes. She's got great taste. I'll ask her—I'll ask her her opinion. She liked the white as opposed to the fake gold.

But they had the fake gold. You know, the one thing about gold: You can never imitate real gold. They've tried to do it for years. Paint—gold paint. Gold paint never works. You've got to——

Q. Mr. President——

The President. You've got to go for the real 24-karat gold.

Yes.

Kennedy Center Honors

Q. Yes, sir. Is there another president other than yourself who you think would have done a good job hosting the Kennedy Center Honors?

The President. Hosting, yes. Building, no. [Laughter] You have a couple that would've done—you know, they're politicians. They're very good on their feet, most of them.

Q. Could you name one?

The President. I would say the last one wouldn't have done too well hosting. [Laughter] But you know, we've had some great politicians. Excuse me, John F. Kennedy would have done a very good job hosting.

But building? No. No. I will build better than anybody. I build better than anybody. Thank you.

Revenue From the Kennedy Center Honors Program

Q. Twenty-three million dollars was made tonight, nearly doubling——

The President. Say it.

Q. Twenty-three million dollars was made tonight, nearly doubling last year.

The President. Yes.

Q. Why do you think that is?

The President. Maybe we had something to do with it. I don't know.

We doubled up last year. It's really much more than that, because we've raised—we've done over $100-, not including tonight. We've done over $100 million already, and those are numbers that the Kennedy Center has never seen before. It's doing really well.

Thank you for that question.

The President's View on National Progress/2024 Presidential Election

Q. How is this renovation and the big, beautiful ballroom for the White House——

Q. You've done so much for American greatness.

The President. Say it.

Q. ——how is this tied into——

The President. Say it.

Q. You've done so much for American greatness. Talk to the next generation about how important the values are that you're celebrating tonight are to American greatness—things like self-discipline, creativity, talent. Those things.

The President. Yes. Well, the young generation, I think, is going to grow up strong. We have a very different country than we had a year ago. A year ago, we had a country that was in big trouble. Now we have a country that's the talk of the world, and everybody's respecting us again. And young people are respecting us again too.

I won the young vote. Republicans never win the young vote. I won it easily.

And I want to thank Charlie, and I want to thank TikTok. And there are a lot of reasons for it, but there's never been a Republican who won the young vote, and I won the very young vote. So that's a good sign.

Kennedy Center Honorees KISS and Actor Sylvester Stallone

Q. Why did you select KISS, Mr. President? Why did you select KISS for the honor this evening? Do you have a favorite KISS song?

The President. Well, I like them as people. I've listened to their music over the years. They are characters too. They really are.

I don't know if you saw last night—the speeches, they were great. They really made some great speeches last night, and they're very popular.

A lot of people—you know, a lot of people write in and ask us to select. So, like, think of it: Sylvester Stallone was not picked for any of this stuff. He's one of the greatest movie stars of all time——

Q. And from here.

The President. ——based on revenue, based on, you know, "Rocky" and "Rambo" and the numbers. No, I doubt—maybe there's a couple of stars that have done something equal, but really, there's nothing like it.

So we're going to have a very exciting night, but KISS is terrific.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

The President's Taste in Music

Q. What are you—what are you—two questions. What are you looking forward to most about hosting tonight?

And number two, Secretary Duffy says you are the "master of the playlist" out on the Rose Garden. What's your favorite song to listen to on the Rose Garden?

The President. Well, I have so many different songs. And I mean, look, Lee Greenwood really hit big with that. He—it was—from day one, that was—we put it on the first rally, and we never took it off. And he's great.

But I have a lot of favorites, and I can tell you that we both love Elton John. A special man, a special guy, and he's really talent. We like a lot of different—I like a lot of different songs, a lot of different types of music. I have a good playlist.

Thank you. Thank you.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

America's 250th Anniversary Celebration/Ultimate Fighting Championship

Q. Mr. President—Mr. President, what would you like to see for America 250 here at the Kennedy Center? What would you like to see here?

The President. Well, we're going to have a lot of events. You know, one of the things you're going to have here is some of the UFC press. You're going to have the fighters coming over talking about the fights. It's a big deal.

The UFC on June 14—it's going to be June 14 next year. And we—they're building an arena. The great Dana White is building an arena, and they're going to have eight or nine championship fights. The biggest fights they've ever had. Every one is a championship fight, and every one is a legendary type of fight.

He's actually holding back fights right now for 6 months, so he can do it for this—the 250. I think 250 is going to be amazing. I think the arena is going to be 5- or 6,000 seats right in front of the front door of the White House, and 100,000 people in the back where they're putting up 8 or 10 very big screens. That's going to be an exciting night. So many people are asking for tickets—the UFC.

Thank you.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Netflix Co–Chief Executive Officer Ted Sarandos/Potential Acquisition of Warner Brothers

Q. Mr. President, do you—did you meet with Ted Sarandos? Did—Mr. President——

The President. I did. I met with Ted. I think he's fantastic. I think he's—in the history of Hollywood, there's really been, almost, you could say nothing like what he's done. You could go back to Louis B. Mayer, maybe, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, MGM.

Ted has done an incredible job. I mean, he had a company that was very troubled seven or eight years ago, and he took it over, and he—he's really done a legendary job.

Q. Should they be allowed to buy Warner Brothers? Should Netflix——

The President. Well, that's the question. They have a very big market share, and when they have Warner Brothers, you know, that share goes up a lot. So I don't know. That's going to be for some economist to tell and also—and I'll be involved in that decision too.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

But they have a very big market share.

Q. Did he make any guarantees to you about the merger if they do merge?

The President. No, no. Not really. He came up. He was in the Oval Office last week. I have a lot of respect for him. He's a great person, but he's done one of the greatest jobs in the history of movies and other things. He's—and he's got a lot of interesting things happening aside from what you're talking about.

But it is a big market share. There's no question about that. It could be a problem.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Yes.

The President's Views on Music

Q. Mr. President, you mentioned some of your favorite songs. In your opinion, what makes a song great?

The President. Well, it's something that has to be soft and soothing to your ear. I like some songs that other people don't like. You know, it's why they have—

Q. Like what?

The President. You ever hear the expression: That's why they have menus in restaurants. We're all different. We all order different things, otherwise, you'd just serve one meal and that would be it.

Q. Are you a country music fan, Mr. President?

The President. But I like—I love country music, and we have—hey, we have the king of country music tonight. So that's another one.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. President Trump, will you rename the Kennedy Center the "Trump Center"?

The President. I—it's not up to me. We have a Board of 40 people that are really the most prestigious people in the United States. We have the honorary Chairwoman on the Board, right? As the First Lady, she's honorary Chairwoman.

But we have, it's a really prestigious Board, and that's up to them. I don't know what they're doing about that.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

The President. We are doing a lot of—look, we are saving the Kennedy Center. [Inaudible]

Kennedy Center Honorees Selection Process

Q. And can you tell us, how did you choose the nominees today—the winners today?

The President. Yes, we went through probably 50 different names. We were politicked by a lot of people, some—some of them, the stars themselves. But we went through 50 names, and we picked the 5, and we're very happy with it.

They've really—very different—very different audiences. But as I said, just down the line, they're different audiences, but when you add them up, it's a hundred percent of the public.

Thank you.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

The President's Meeting With President Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo of Mexico and Prime Minister Mark Carney of Canada

Q. What did you talk about with Prime Minister Carney and Mexican President Sheinbaum when you were here just a few days earlier?

The President. Right. Mexico and Canada, we met with the—as you know, I mean, it was pretty well—a lot of people were here. Right here we met. And the Prime Minister of Canada, President of Mexico, and we spoke for a half hour. A very good, a very productive—we talked mostly trade.

Canada-U.S. Relations

Q. Will you restart negotiations with Canada?

The President. Oh, I'll—look, I have a great relationship with Canada. They're very tough traders, but I have a very good relationship with the Prime Minister and with Canada.

Q. And you had said you would halt those negotiations earlier after the terror attack——

The President. Well, I have halted them, actually.

Q. And so, will you restart them?

The President. Well—yes, well, we'll see. I mean, you know, the problem is the—Canada makes a lot of things that we don't need because we make them also. But we'll work it out. Canada is a special place, and they really are good at ice hockey, aren't they?

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

The President's Role in Hosting the Kennedy Center Honors

Q. What is more difficult, Mr. President: hosting the Kennedy Center Honors or preparing for the State of the Union?

The President. Well, I'll—could I answer that question after the show is over?

Q. If you give it to me, absolutely, Mr. President.

The President. I'll give it to you after the show is over.

Q. Thanks.

The President. I mean——

Q. What's more difficult——

The President. ——this is a little bit different.

Q. Yes.

The President's Experience in Television

The President. But, you know, I hosted "The Apprentice" when it was the number-one show on television. We did 42.5 million people that night. It was a little different television than it is now.

Q. What are you——

The President. There was more people watching in those days—[inaudible].

Kennedy Center Honors Program

Q. What are you expecting, Mr. President, in terms of ratings for this year's Kennedy Center Honors?

The President. I think it'll do great. I mean, I think it's going to do great. Ratings are complicated now, because you have streaming added on and everything else, but I think it'll do very big. I mean, just look. I mean, just based on what you see right here, if you came here last year, you saw a line that was about one-tenth this size. You weren't even here last year, right?

Q. I was here.

The President's Role in Hosting the Kennedy Center Honors

Q. Mr. President, how do you prepare for hosting this year's Kennedy Center Honors? You have so much on your plate. Where do you make the time?

The President. I do. I have a lot of my plate, and I didn't really prepare very much. I read a little bit. I have a good memory, so I can remember things which is very fortunate, but just—I want to just be myself, and so you have to be yourself.

Johnny Carson, he was himself.

Thank you, everybody.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. [Inaudible]—with—from politicization, do you think the Kennedy Center is now better serving all Americans?

The President. I think it is. I think it's been a—it's been really enhanced very greatly over the last 10 months, meaning since we've been here. And we're making it great. We're going to make it physically great as a building, so you won't even believe how beautiful it will be. And we saved the Kennedy Center. That's a big thing.

Thank you.

Q. During your first term, you stayed away from the awards.
