Title: Remarks During a Telerally for Tennessee Republican Congressional Candidate Matt Van Epps
Date: December 01, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-during-telerally-for-tennessee-republican-congressional-candidate-matt-van-epps-0

Well, Mr. Speaker, I want to just thank you for the great job that you're doing, and I love the fact that you've spent days now working on trying to get one of the best candidates that we've ever had before us elected, Matt Van Epps. He's really fantastic.

So, for all of the people—we have thousands of people—Tennessee's 7th Congressional District listening, I just want to urge you to get out and vote tomorrow, December 2, for Matt Van Epps.

Now, I have to say the whole world is watching. This is a big deal, because right now we're, like, three votes up on the radical left, and this would be a wonderful victory for us. It will be really a positive sign.

Information, by the way—swampthevoteUSA.com—if you want to have a little information on where to go and vote, swampthevoteUSA.com.

But Matt Van Epps has my complete and total endorsement. He has right from the beginning. He won a primary that was supposed to be tough by a massive amount against a good candidate, but he really did great. And he's a true American-first patriot. He went to the United States Military Academy at West Point and went on to serve our Nation for a decade as an Army Special Operations helicopter pilot, where he was really, they say, one of the greatest helicopter pilots. I like to hear that.

And if this doesn't work out, I'm going to somehow get Matt involved back and flying helicopters around with me in it. But I think it's going to work out. I don't think we're going to have to worry about it. He's an outstanding guy.

I have to say his opponent is a radical-left lunatic who doesn't like country music and doesn't like Christians. You know, she said, "I don't like Christianity."

So I would say, knowing Tennessee—you know, I won Tennessee every time by record numbers. I won the—three times in the primary by record numbers. I won, more importantly, frankly, the highest vote in the history of Tennessee. So they like me, and I like them, and it just seems to work that way.

But she is somebody that doesn't like country music. I would say, for Nashville, that's not so good. And maybe much more importantly, doesn't like Christianity. And those are statements that are recorded. They're down. They're sort of incredible.

Much—you know, also very important, you go to just a playlist of the negatives. She wants open borders. You know, we have the most secure border in the history of our country right now. We have the most secure border. We had the least secure border probably anywhere in the world. We took in 25 million people, many of whom should not be here, from prisons, from gangs, from drug dealers, everybody coming—pouring into our country from all over the world. From the Congo they came, from Venezuela. And, as you know, we're doing a hell of a job getting them out.

But we have some really bad—we have 11,888 murderers allowed by Biden and his group of thugs into this country. And they can never be forgotten. We can never, ever forget what they did to our country. And she's a big fan of the policies of the Biden administration. She wants open borders. She wants transgender for everybody. She wants all of the things that we stand against. She wants high taxes.

We just—as you know, the "Great Big Beautiful Bill" gives a massive tax cut to the people of our country, everybody. The largest tax cut in the history of our country. Plus, it extends the previous Trump tax cuts. But now you have no tax on tips. You have no tax on Social Security. And you have no tax on overtime.

And so it's the most transformative bill ever passed in the history of our country. In fact, we wanted to do it one time as opposed to 11 different bills. We had 11 different bills, and traditional doctrine said let's go and do each one, one after another. And everyone said—because one would be impossible to get done. And we got it all done. We got the one—I call it the "Great Big Beautiful Bill," but that's exactly what it is. It's the biggest, it's the best ever approved by Congress. Nobody ever did anything so big, and now we're implementing it.

And remember, it only starts on—we haven't even started yet. We already have the greatest business economy in the history of our country. We set 48 records on stock market. And that means—and what does that equate to? Jobs and your 401(k)s. Your 401(k)s are, likewise, at a record level. They've never been as high as they are right now.

So we're doing our job. And you know, they like to talk about affordability. To them, it's just a con job. It's just a word. Because if you know, I inherited the worst inflation in the history of the United States of America. I inherited the worst inflation ever. Prices were through the roof, and now they're coming down and coming down substantially. The only thing that's going up is your—frankly, is your stock market prices. But everything is coming down and coming down very substantially.

And you see it with energy. Gasoline looks like it's going to be hitting $2 a gallon very soon. And they were at $4, $4.50, $5, depending on where you look. But we're going to be down into the twos, and we're already into the twos, but we could even crack $2 a gallon. And that—you know, when you get energy—it's such a big factor. When you get energy, and you get energy coming down, everything comes down. And we're getting prices down, grocery prices—every type of price. It's coming down, and it's coming down fast.

But I need somebody like Matt Van Epps, and he'll be an incredible fighter. He's strong. He's secure in himself. He's a great guy. He loves Tennessee. And he's going to be one of our best Congressmen.

So I just hope you can get out tomorrow and you can vote. Tomorrow is a big day. Remember, the world is watching this one. This is a big thing. They say it's a sign of how we're doing—I've won—I won your State by 22 points. I won the area by something, I think, even more than that. So, if it's, like, 2 points less than that, they'll say: "Oh, that's terrible. I guess Trump is losing his magic." But he's—I think Matt—I want Matt to do better than me, even.

So, whatever you can do, I'll never forget it. I love the State. We've had a great relationship together. Nobody has done more for Tennessee than I have, as you know.

So, if you could, get out and vote. If you think he's going to win, it doesn't matter, you've got to get out and vote. Make it too big to rig. And I really appreciate it.

And, with that, I'll turn it over to Matt. He'll say a few words. But again, I want to thank the people of Tennessee for the incredible support they've given me. Thank you all very much. I love you all.

And, Matt, take it over.

NOTE: The President spoke at 7:10 p.m. via teleconference from the White House. In his remarks, he referred to Speaker of the House of Representatives J. Michael Johnson; and Tennessee Democratic congressional candidate State Rep. Aftyn A. Behn. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on December 2. Audio was not available for verification of the content of these remarks.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), Remarks During a Telerally for Tennessee Republican Congressional Candidate Matt Van Epps Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/386123
