Title: Remarks During a Telerally for New Jersey Republican Gubernatorial Candidate Jack Ciattarelli
Date: November 03, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-during-telerally-for-new-jersey-republican-gubernatorial-candidate-jack

The President. Well, thank you very much, Jeff.

And I want to thank you, maybe more importantly, for doing such a great job as a Congressman. We fought together to stop all those hundreds of windmills they wanted to build off the Jersey Shore, and we stopped it—you and I and a couple of other people; there weren't too many that helped us—and I just want to congratulate you on that. It would have been a disaster—just an absolute disaster, raised up the cost of energy more, and it would have been so bad.

So I just want to thank Congressman Jeff Van Drew, a special man.

And hello to the incredible patriots of the great State of New Jersey.

Tomorrow is election day in your State, and you need to go out and vote for Jack Ciattarelli, who's a great guy, a friend of mine. A great guy, very successful man, who wants to put all of his efforts now into really saving New Jersey, making it great again and saving it, and he's going to do it. He'll be able to do it.

The polls are looking really good. They're just about even, and they say even for us is a win. You know, it's a—if you can be even, that means it's a win.

We've got to be very careful. Get out and vote, but we have to beat the radical left.

The polls will open tomorrow, as you know, 6 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. And if you want information, go to swampthevoteUSA.com for more information. You get it right at that. Just go. Everybody is waiting to give you whatever information you want to go out and vote for Jack.

Jack Ciattarelli is a businessman and a public servant who has devoted his life to the people of New Jersey. He really has too. He loves the State. He's fighting for lower taxes, lower prices, lower cost of living—much of the same things that I'm fighting for—and especially lower energy costs.

Your energy costs have gone through the roof under Democrat leadership, even though, on a national basis, they've gone way down. You're close to $2 for gasoline—$2 a gallon. It was up to 5 and 6, and then it was 4 and 4.50. It's down to close to $2 now, and it's—nobody can believe it.

But you know, drill, baby, drill. That's what I say, and that turned out to be true.

But we're at a—position where it's incredible, but the Democrats, if they got in—your energy costs in New Jersey are very, very high—one of the highest in the Nation. And if they get in, it's going to go—it could double, triple, and even quadruple. It will not be sustainable.

If Jack gets in, and, you know, with what we're doing in Washington—and it's not necessarily equal, because we can create low energy costs, which we've done, and yet New Jersey is through the roof. So you figure it. But Jack will get them down, and he'll get them down really low. Calls me about it all the time.

And energy is a big factor. You want high energy, vote for the Democrat. If you want to see really low energy costs, vote for Jack.

He will deliver safe communities as well for the law-abiding citizens of your State. He is very crime-oriented to stop crime, much more so than almost all politicians, because I deal with all of them. Fully supports our police. He has the total endorsement of every police. Every group in the State, he's endorsed by. And get the illegal aliens and the criminals and gang members and people from mental institutions that were dropped into our country—he agrees we've got to get them out, and we're getting them out of record numbers, as you probably know.

We have a border that's allowing virtually nobody in. They had a border that allowed 25 million people in—many of them absolute criminals, drug dealers, drug addicts, the people from mental institutions. They emptied their jails into our country, and we're getting them out at numbers that, you know, frankly, have made us look very good, but that's not—it's not about looking good. It's about getting it all done.

But we're really a champion for common sense, and that's the Republican Party.

So Jack is running against a horrible, fake, corrupt, radical-left Democrat opponent named Mikie Sherrill. The only thing she's got going is it's a very unusual name. I've never heard of the name "Mikie" for a woman, but maybe this—she'll be the last. I don't think too many people will be naming their child after Mikie.

Her energy policies would send your prices soaring and make New Jersey even more expensive than it already is, which, as I said, is one of the highest in the entire country.

Combined with her high-tax, her high-crime agenda, Mikie Sherrill will send New Jersey into a death spiral, a deficit spiral. And your jobs and businesses are going to flee the State, and I don't want that to happen, because I—as you know, I'm in the State all the time, different locations all over the State. I have property all over the State. I love the State, and we've got to make it really great again.

Taxes are through the roof, and, again, families are getting taxed at levels that they've never seen before. Jack is going to get your taxes down. He's going to get your energy costs down, and they're going to go down really tremendously.

Mikie Sherrill is a dishonest person. As you know, she was thrown out of her school for cheating. And didn't want to talk about it, but they found her, and she wasn't allowed to walk with her graduating class. She would be a travesty as a Governor in New Jersey.

Your State has been wrecked by radical-left Democrats—they're lunatics—in Trenton for decades. It's been time for a change a long time ago, but now it is time for a change. You have a—this is maybe your finest chance. I don't want to say your last chance, because that would be a pretty negative statement, but it's certainly a great chance.

Jack is just about even, in some polls even leading, but only leading if you get out and vote.

In 2024, my campaign received the most votes for a Republican Presidential candidate in New Jersey history by far, and so we have something going. And we've increased the size of the Republican Party because of that, and Jack is a great recipient of it, and he helped us do it. Republican registrations are soaring.

The Jewish community in New Jersey also voted very strongly for me in 2024, especially the Jewish leadership, where we had so much support—Lakewood, New Jersey—all of the different areas of New Jersey. But I've seen that whether it's—almost every group. I think we have a chart, which we're going to send out to Jack—better do it fast, because we don't have much time left—but virtually every group voted way higher for me and all throughout the country.

And as you know, with your help—but as you know, we won the popular vote for the Presidential election, 2024. I said: "Too big to rig. Get out and vote." We won the popular vote. We won every district. We won 2,700 versus 500 of the districts. We—took the Electoral College at 312 to, like, 225. Everything we did, we did well, and we're going to do it again.

This is the biggest election. The entire country is watching New Jersey. They're going to be watching tonight. They're going to be watching tomorrow, and they're really going to be watching tomorrow night.

So you need to get out to the polls tomorrow and vote to save New Jersey. You're going to save it, because energy costs—if you get Mikie going in there, energy costs are going to go up so much you're not going to be able to sustain your way of life.

So go to swampthevoteUSA.com. SwampthevoteUSA.com for more information about where to vote. The polls will be open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m., and vote for Jack Ciattarelli. He's a fantastic guy. He's a winner. He loves the State. He has given up so much to do this. It would be horrible for the State if he lost, and it will be one of the greatest days in the history of New Jersey if he wins.

So I want to thank everybody.

And, again, I want to give you back to Congressman Van Drew, a fantastic man in his own right, and he's done a great job. We've worked together and done some tremendous things for the State.

We love you all. Thank you for your great support, and I'll see you soon. Get out and vote.

Congressman, it's yours.

NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. via teleconference from the White House. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on November 6.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), Remarks During a Telerally for New Jersey Republican Gubernatorial Candidate Jack Ciattarelli Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/385889
