Title: Remarks on Accepting the 2025 FIFA Peace Prize
Date: December 05, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-accepting-the-2025-fifa-peace-prize

Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) President Giovanni V. Infantino.

Thank you very much. And please welcome the very first winner of the FIFA Peace Price, the 45th and 47th President of the United States of America, Mr. Donald J. Trump. Please.

The President. [Inaudible]

Mr. Infantino. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this is your prize. This is your Peace Prize. There is also a beautiful medal for you that you can wear everywhere you want to go. [Laughter]

The President. I'm going to wear it right now.

Mr. Infantino. Okay. Let me hold—ah.

[At this point, the President put on the medal.]

Fantastic. Excellent.

And you will receive also, of course, a certificate, which reads out—and I would read it out with your permission—

The President. Thank you.

Mr. Infantino. ——what are the reasons for you receiving this FIFA Peace Prize, "Football Unites the World."

So, the FIFA Peace Prize is presented annually on behalf of the billions of football-loving people from around the world to a distinguished individual who exemplifies an unwavering commitment to advancing peace and unity throughout the world through their notable leadership and action.

And, therefore, FIFA—the Fédération Internationale de Football Association—awards the 2025 FIFA Peace Prize, "Football Unites the World," to Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of America, in recognition of his exceptional and extraordinary actions to promote peace and unity around the world—Friday, December 5, 2025.

The President. Thank you.

Mr. Infantino. This is the certificate. It's yours.

Before giving you the floor, Mr. President, if I may say two words. Like everyone here in the room, we see images of war all over the world. And like everyone, we suffer for every child that dies, we cry with every mother that loses someone she loves, and we want to see hope. We want to see unity. We want to see a future.

And I was lucky, Mr. President, to witness last—a few years ago, the Abraham Accord signatures; a few months ago, in Sharm El-Sheikh, the peace in the Middle East agreement regarding Gaza; I was in Malaysia and Kuala Lumpur for the peace between Cambodia and Thailand; yesterday, here in Washington, the Washington peace agreement between Rwanda and the D.R.C.

Well, this is what we want from a leader—a leader that cares about the people. We want to live in a safe world, in a safe environment. We want to unite. That's what we do here today. That's what we'll do at the World Cup, Mr. President.

And you definitely deserve the first FIFA Peace Prize for your action, for what you have obtained in your way, but you obtained it in an incredible way. And you can always count, Mr. President, on my support, on the support of the entire football community—or soccer community—to help you make peace and make the world prosper all over the world.

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

The President. Thank you, Gianni.

Mr. Infantino. The floor is all yours.

The President. Thank you very much.

Mr. Infantino. Thank you.

The President. Well, thank you very much. This is truly one of the great honors of my life.

And beyond awards—Gianni and I were discussing this—we saved millions and millions of lives. The Congo, as an example—over 10 million people killed, and it was heading for another 10 million very quickly. And it just—you know, the fact that we could do that—India-Pakistan, so many different wars that were able to end—in some cases, a little bit before they started. Just right before they started. It was going to be late, but we got them done.

And it's such an honor to be with Gianni. I've known Gianni for so long. He's done such an incredible job. And I have to tell you, you've set new records on ticket sales. And not to bring that up, because we don't want to bring a thing like that up right now, but it's an awfully nice tribute to you and to the game of football—or, as we call it, "soccer"—but football. And that is an amazing thing. The numbers are beyond any numbers that anybody—even beyond what Gianni thought was possible.

Mr. Infantino. Definitely.

The President. I want to thank, by the way, my family, my great First Lady, Melania. You're right here, and thank you very much.

And I think you're going to have an event the likes of which maybe the world has never seen. Based on the enthusiasm that I've seen, I have never seen anything like it.

We've had a tremendous relationship—working relationship with Canada. We have our Prime Minister of Canada there, and we have our President of Mexico. And we've worked closely with those two countries, and the coordination and friendship and relationship has been outstanding. And I want to thank you both very much and your countries very much.

But most importantly, I just want to thank everybody. The world is a safer place now.

The United States, 1 year ago, was not doing too well. And now, I have to say, we're the hottest country anywhere in the world, and we're going to keep it that way.

Thank you all. Thank you. Have a great time.

And, Gianni, a tremendous honor. Thank you.

Mr. Infantino. Thank you. Thank you, President.

The President. [Inaudible]

Mr. Infantino. Thank you so much.

The President. Thank you, everybody.
