Title: Remarks and an Exchange With Reporters Prior to Departure for Palm Beach, Florida
Date: January 09, 2026
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-and-exchange-with-reporters-prior-departure-for-palm-beach-florida-0

The President. So we just had a great meeting with the oil executives. We've sort of formed a deal. They're going to be going in with hundreds of billions of dollars and drilling oil, and it's good for Venezuela and it's great for the United States. A lot of money is going to be made. Oil prices will come down, although they are getting down pretty good now without it. And it was a great meeting we had today with the biggest companies anywhere in the world.

[At this point, several reporters began asking questions at once.]

President Gustavo Petro Urrego of Colombia

Q. Mr. President, what will happen in the meeting with the President of Colombia doesn't go as planned?

The President. I think the meeting will go very well with the President of Colombia. I look forward to it.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

White House Ballroom Construction Project

Q. On the ballroom. Yesterday, at the National Capital Planning Commission, there were some concerns that this 89,000-square-foot structure, same height as this building, is going to dwarf it and overwhelm it. Do you worry about that?

The President. No, no. It's beautiful. Actually, they had a great meeting yesterday. A really great meeting. And people love it. They love the ballroom. We need it. If we would have had the ballroom today, we could have had all of the oil companies here. We—you know, we don't have the space.

So they've needed it for a long time. They've needed the larger building. And this ballroom will be the best anywhere in the world. There'll be nothing to compete with.

Q. Do you worry about——

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Venezuela/U.S. Military Operation To Capture President Nicolas Maduro Moros of Venezuela

Q. President Trump, please. Please, while you're on Venezuela, with other South American countries like Venezuela and Brazil, is that place a matter of concern for you? Because some people that live in South American countries, not only Bolivia, but Colombia, Brazil, they—[inaudible]—concern. Is it a matter of concern for you?

The President. Everyone is going to be happy in South America. Everybody. What we've done is—some people would say it's a miracle, actually, what we've done. And Venezuela is happy. I think they're all going to be happy.

Thank you very much, everybody.

[Several reporters spoke at once.]

Q. Mr. President, have you seen the video out of Minneapolis today, sir?
