Thank you very much. Thank you. Please.

It's a great honor to have all my friends here. It's like Old Home Week. What a job you're doing, and thank you very much for that.

We want to begin by thanking the people that have done such a great job at the White House. They have been doing really incredible work during a shutdown. I don't even know if they're supposed to be working, but they wouldn't miss a day. So I just want to thank everybody for that very much.

And we're here today to discuss a sweeping, unprecedented, and historically successful operation that my administration has carried out in recent weeks to arrest, prosecute, and permanently remove members of foreign drug cartels from American soil. And the people gathered around this table are the ones that are doing it—and in this room. Some of them sitting a little behind. It's like some of them I'm surprised are not actually at the table. You people should be very insulted by that. [Laughter] But you've done a great job back there.

On my first day in office earlier this year, I signed an Executive order to officially designate the drug cartels and savage transnational gangs as foreign terrorist organizations. It was my honor to do so.

And on that same day, I also signed an order directing the creation of the Homeland Security Task Force to bring together all Federal, State, and local partners to achieve the national policy goal of eliminating the cartel presence in America once and for all. And the results are—and it's early, and the results are spectacular.

Led by ICE and the FBI, this Task Force includes the Department of Justice, the Department of War, DHS, the intelligence community, ATF, the DEA, the U.S. Marshals, and the state and local agencies in every part of our country. Other than that, we don't include too many people. That's a hell of a group—isn't it, huh?—when you think of it. That's not a group you want against you, certainly not at one time.

In addition to the task force members, we're pleased to be joined by representatives of law enforcement at every level—the highest level, actually, but every level—including national president of the Fraternal Order of Police, Patrick Yoes. Where's Patrick? Patrick—thank you, Patrick. Thank you for the endorsement too. That really hit it off. I would have gotten 98 percent anyway, but it was still good to have your endorsement. [Laughter] Thank you, Patrick. I don't forget those things.

National Border Patrol Council President Paul A. Perez. Thank you.

You've made some incredible speeches, some—and all from the heart too. Right? Some great ones.

Today you'll hear details from my national security and homeland security teams about the extraordinary, historic achievements of this new Homeland Security Task Force since it became fully operational last month in all 50 States. The job they're doing. What we inherited from this past administration is, like, disgraceful.

In a matter of weeks, the Task Force has made the largest number of arrests of cartel leaders, operatives, and gang members in American history, more than 3,000 and counting. That includes members of the ultraviolent New Generation Cartel; the Sinaloa Cartel; the LNFM Cartel; MS–13 cartel—and you know MS–13, the gang; and Tren de Aragua, another beauty. That's a group of real garbage we have to deal with that we shouldn't have to deal with.

These are in addition to the massive numbers of dangerous criminals my administration arrested nationwide since January 20, numbering over 120,000. It's a record. And 120,000 criminal arrests. Thank you very much.

Unfortunately, for 4 long years before I took office, the last administration allowed the cartels and their operatives to, frankly, take over our country, to freely infiltrate America and all the communities nationwide.

Along with transnational gangs, these groups have unleashed more bloodshed and killing on American soil than all other terrorist groups combined. These are the worst of the worst. It should now be clear to the entire world that the cartels are the ISIS of the Western Hemisphere.

In addition to their monstrous violence such as cutting off heads, burning their enemies alive, and burning innocent people alive too, by the way, the cartels control large swaths of territory. They maintain vast arsenals of weapons and soldiers, and they use extortion, murder, kidnapping to exercise political and economic control. Thank you very much, Joe Biden, for allowing that to happen.

Biden surrendered the—I mean, he just surrendered our country to the cartels. Don't worry, we're taking—it gets better. We're taking it back. It's really fast, at levels that nobody has ever seen before. But what we had to put up with, what we inherited was just a disgrace.

And while Biden was President—if he was President; I think the autopen was President, not Biden—nearly 100 percent of those who infiltrated our southern border did so because they were personally approved. They admitted they were—they were—just what happened, assisted by the most dangerous and violent criminal organizations anywhere on the planet. The worst people on the planet they allowed into our beautiful country.

Under the Trump administration, we're finally treating the cartels as the core national security threat that they really are. The cartels are waging war on America, and just as I promised in the campaign, we're waging war on them like they've never seen before. All you have to do is turn on your television and you'll see what's happening to them.

Past administrations have tried to mitigate this threat, and our objective is to eliminate it. We're not mitigating; we're eliminating. We're getting them out. The bad ones we're putting in prison. We hate to do that, because that means we're stuck with them for 50 years or more.

In recent weeks, our Homeland Security Task Force has seized more than 70 tons of deadly narcotics along with more than 1,000 illegal guns, and that's just recently. This is already the most successful anti-cartel and anti-gang operation in American history, and it's just getting started.

We have incredible people. A lot of them are in this room with us today, and it's an honor to have them. But we're going to not stop until the threat has been fully and completely eradicated.

I want to thank Task Force members with us today, including a person who's doing a fantastic job, Attorney General Pam Bondi. Thank you. Pam, thank you.

Attorney General Pamela J. Bondi. Thank you, President.

Secretary of War Pete Hegseth. Sounds so much better than Secretary of Defense. I don't know. Do you guys agree with that? I don't know. It sounds—you know, we won the First World War, the Second World War. I always say, "Everything before and everything in between." And then we got woke, and we said, "Well, let's call it Defense." I don't think—I think we like it this way better.

You know, it's funny. That's something I thought it would be maybe controversial, and it's only controversial that we changed the name in the first place. It's not controversial at all. It's been unbelievably well accepted, Pete. Hasn't it? Right?

People want to have our country back. People want to do exactly what we're doing right now. We're getting a lot of credit for it, and we should. I want to thank though—Pete, you're doing a great job. Pete Hegseth.

And this is all about collaboration. Around this table—I'm looking around this table—we all work so well together. I don't think another administration in our nation's history has worked so well together.

We talk constantly—Secretary Noem, Tulsi, Pete—constantly, but also all of our agencies working hand in hand, and that's why this is so successful. And these people around this table are working seven days a week, 24 hours a day, even though the Democrats have tried to shut down the government.

We are going to supercharge this work. This is not a pilot program; this is permanent. We are here to stay.

And, Secretary Hegseth, we couldn't do this without you and the Department of War.

Thank you all so much for everything you're doing around this table working tirelessly.

And, President Trump, thank you——

Thank you.

Attorney General Bondi. ——for giving them the ability to do it.

Thank you, Pam, very much. Thank you.

Pete.

Yes.

Thank you. Thank you very much, Pete. Thank you.

Tulsi, please.

Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The key reason that you are hearing about these incredible effects is, number one, the team that you've assembled here and the leadership and the tone that you have set. First and foremost, it's about keeping the American people safe. The intelligence community plays a critical role in being able to support our law enforcement at the Federal, State, and local level to make sure that they are armed with actionable intelligence to be able to actually go after those who threaten the safety and security of the American people.

Director Gabbard. Thank you, Mr. President. I'll hand this off to Homeland Security Adviser Stephen Miller——

Right.

Director Gabbard. ——the leader of this task force.

White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Stephen Miller. Let me just say, Mr. President, that this country was going to die without you. This country was going to actually die without you. That's what we were facing in 2024. We've been invaded for four years. Our communities were sinking. Our public safety had gone to zero. Cartels were running entire communities. Sex trafficking, child trafficking, labor trafficking was out of control. Overdoses were out of control. The cartels were claiming more and more territory. City services were buckling. This was a country on the verge of dying, and you alone saved it.

And when you stepped forward, originally in 2016, you started the movement to make America great again, and that means make America great again in every way. And that means safety and prosperity and peace and freedom from cartels and crime and gangs.

And I will say one last thing, which is that his courage has been an inspiration to everyone else in this room. You know, there—there are people in this room—you know, I'm looking at, for example, at Todd Lyons—who have been relentlessly doxed and harassed and threatened. But when they see President Trump's courage, what he's been through for 10 years to save America—when they came after his family, his businesses, his safety, his freedom—everyone at this table knows we can give whatever it takes to get the mission done.

So, President Trump, thank you for your leadership, your boldness, your courage, and your vision. We're honored to serve underneath you.

Well, I want to thank you, Stephen. And I have to say that, you know, I've been making the rounds. I'm leaving tomorrow for some very big meetings, including with the president of China, where I think we're going to come out very well and everyone is going to be very happy.

But everybody said the same thing: A year ago, we had a dead country. We were a dead country. We really were in a lot of ways, not just this. We were dead as doornails on this. But we were a country that was in serious trouble and beyond that. And we have the hottest country anywhere in the world right now. The whole world is talking about it. We have the hottest country anywhere in the world.

We're going to clear up this crime in our cities. We can do it quickly too. They showed how quickly we could do it in DC. It was a real bad place. It was a real mess. Dirty, filthy, disgusting graffiti all over the place. Tents on every ounce of parks that we had. Just disgusting.

And I rode around last weekend. I rode around the city. I felt very safe in that car. [Laughter] But you know, I would have done it without it. I wouldn't need that car so much anymore—I will tell you. But the place was clean. We've started that also—not only law and order, but we—you know, the cleanliness is important. I think cleanliness is almost a part of law and order.

If you see dirty, disgusting streets and potholes all over the place, and railings falling down and graffiti all over the marble—beautiful, statuary marble columns—those gorgeous columns where they had graffiti—it's all gone. And I think it's a part of it. I really do. I think it's a big part of it. But we have a city that we can be proud of. It's going to—we're going to be that way with every city we have.

That's why with San Francisco, I wish them luck, but we could do it so much faster. I told the mayor, "I love what you're doing." I respect it. And I respect the people that are doing it. They're the biggest people in the country. They're the biggest people in the world. A lot of the high tech. Some people like them, some people don't, but they're smart, and they want to do it. And I said, "I am so honored to let you do it. And if it doesn't work out, we'll do it for you very quickly."

But I just want to thank—the people around this table are amazing.

Kash, please go ahead.

Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Kashyap P. "Kash" Patel. Mr. President, I'll just keep it short, but I think what the media should realize is the amount of courage it takes to do this. And you led that mission. You led it during your campaign, and you brought it to the American people.

I think the media should focus on some of these numbers the Attorney General just rattled off. Those aren't numbers. Those are lives. Lives saved by the millions—the millions. Enough—excuse me—enough fentanyl to kill over 200 million Americans, gone, evaporated off our streets permanently.

And as Stephen said, we're inspired by your leadership. And this country is thankful for these eight months. And I can't wait to see what the next 4 years looks like.

Thank you very much. Thanks, Kash. Great job.

Todd, please.

Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche. Thank you, Mr. President. The number that I think matters, the three—over 3,000—3,266 terrorists have been taken off the streets in 2 months. And for each of those arrests, there's any—anywhere from between 4 to 20 law enforcement agents—Federal, State, and local—executing those arrests. And that means every one of them are putting their lives on the line to make these arrests to make our community safer.

And so, what I will say to them is thank you. But also, what I will say to them is that to the extent that there are politicians, as recently as today, suggesting they are doing something wrong—we have Governors, district attorneys, mayors, and even Congresswomen suggesting that our Federal law enforcement and the state and local law enforcement that are helping them are doing something wrong—that is disgusting and something that we will not tolerate. That every day Attorney General Bondi and I talk with all of our partners making sure that they know that if any one of our Federal agents, our State or local agents working under the HSTF banner, are even touched by any of these terrorists or rioters, they will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.

When politicians aid these terrorists by trying to give them comfort or protection or suggesting that somehow our men and women are doing the wrong thing, same problem. We will not tolerate it, Mr. President.

So thank you to all of our State and local men and women that are helping us, and our Federal law enforcement officers that are literally putting their lives on the line every single day. We will always protect you.

Thank you, Mr. President.

Thank you very much, Todd. A really good job you're doing too. Thank you.

Any questions, maybe pertaining——

How about pertaining to this for a little while? And we——

Whoa, whoa, whoa. Would you have any questions of these incredible people?

Yes, go ahead, please.

Go ahead.

Venezuela/Border Security

No, it's not accurate. No. It's false. But we're not happy with Venezuela for a lot of reasons, drugs being one of them. But also, they've been sending their prisoners into our country for years under the Biden administration. Not anymore. We have a closed border. We had actually nobody for the last 4 months—I guess, 5 months. They say—they report nothing. They report zero. I don't know if that can be possible, but that's—we'll accept it. Right, fellas?

But we have closed borders. We have people coming into our country, but they only come in legally. We have the strongest borders we've ever had. We might have the strongest borders of almost any nation right now. And that's a big difference from what it was 2 years ago when everybody was pouring in.

But we're very unhappy with Venezuela because of what they've done. They've emptied their prisons into our country. Nobody can do that. Only a stupid person would have accepted it. And that's what we had running our country: very stupid people. So we're not happy with Venezuela, I will tell you.

Yes.

Yes, please. Go ahead.

Are you okay?

Fentanyl/China/U.S. Drug Interdiction Efforts

I'm saying, we're going to lose you.

We have some good medical help right over there. That's all right.

It's more than that, but that's all right. It's more.

I'll be discussing that with President Xi.

I figured it was.

Yes.

And also, a second question for you or Secretary Hegseth. Is there any evidence that China is now smuggling fentanyl through Venezuela to bypass U.S. and Mexican port controls?

They are doing that, yes. But they are paying right now a 20-percent tariff because of fentanyl. That's billions and billions of dollars that they're paying. We're actually—on November 1, the tariff on China goes to 157 percent, which is record-setting territory. And we don't want that because that's not sustainable for them. They can't sustain that. We don't want them to have to go through that.

So I'm meeting with President Xi, and I would say the first—we have some big issues, like with the farmers and various other things. But the first question I'm going to be asking him about is fentanyl. And if you think about it, they make $100 million. Think of this: They make $100 million selling fentanyl into our country. A hundred million. They lose $100 billion with the 20-percent tariff. So it's not a good business proposition. It's $100 billion approximately that they have to pay. It's a big penalty to make $100 million.

So I think they want to do something. They want to put it on the list. It's on the list. It's one of the things we're talking about, and I'm putting it right at the front of the list. So they pay a very big penalty for doing that. And I don't think they want to be doing it, and we'll see what happens at the end of next week, because I'll be meeting next week, as you know, along with—we're stopping in Malaysia, we're stopping in South Korea, we're stopping in Japan.

I'm meeting with President Xi, actually, in South Korea. So it will be the first thing on the list.

Yes, please.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

Well, we know everything about them. Yeah. Yeah. Jennifer [Jennifer Jacobs, CBS News], we know everything about them. We know where they're coming from, who they're coming with, generally who's in the boat. I'll let Pete discuss it a little bit. But they have incredible intelligence. And you know, usually when you see five engines—I've never even seen that before—but when you see five engines on a boat going about 65 miles an hour, loaded up with white powder in silver cases, generally speaking, that's not a good sign. They're not going fishing, right? And you don't see any fishing rods, right?

So, Pete, I'll let you discuss that a little bit, please.

But we've been capturing these boats for years, and they get back into the system, and they do it again and again and again. And they don't fear that. They have no fear.

The thing I can tell you right now: It's very hard to find any floating vessel right now on the Pacific or on the—in the Gulf. And I would like to call it by its official name: the Gulf of America. Another little triumph of the Trump administration.

I said for years—I said why aren't we calling—why do we call it the Gulf of Mexico? It's 93 percent—the shoreline is 93 percent ours. So I never understood that. So I made that change. I never realized how easy that was going to be, other than I guess AP—AP fought us in court, and the judge said, "But that's the name." And actually, they were sort of semi prohibited from even covering us after that. It was pretty amazing.

But we have the Gulf of America. And there are very few boats. Very, very few boats. Not even fishing boats, to be honest. I don't want to do that to the fishing industry. But it's been so effective. And our sea drugs, as they call them—they use the term "sea drugs," the drugs coming in by sea—are like 5 percent of what they were a year ago. Less than 5 percent.

So now they're coming in by land. And even the land is concerned because I told them that's going to be next. You know, the land is going to be next. And we may go to the Senate, we may go to the, you know, Congress and tell them about it, but I can't imagine they'd have any problem with it.

I think, in fact, while we're here, I think it's a good idea, Pete. You go to Congress; you tell them about it. What are they going to do? Say, "Gee, we don't want to stop drugs pouring in"? They're killing 300,000 people a year. I think that's the real number—300,000 people a year.

So, between that and my discussion with President Xi, I think we're—we have never made progress like we've made.

The sea drugs are almost dead, and they can't come in that fast from the land. And the land drugs are much more dangerous for them. It's going to be much more dangerous. You'll be seeing that soon. So that's the way it is.

Yes. Go ahead, please.

Yes, go ahead, please. With the glasses. Go ahead.

They're just trying so hard, and it's not working. They've even now started imitating me, of all people. They want to imitate me. And they started using foul language, but they use too much of it. You know, you can't use the F-word seven times in one sentence. It doesn't work. It might work once every seven news conferences, but you can't do it seven times in one sentence. So I don't know. They're really—they're in big trouble, that party.

Go ahead.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

Two.

Go ahead. Go ahead.

West Bank, Palestinian Territories

Could you say that louder, please?

Will you answer that, please? Because I cannot understand a word she's saying.

Where are you from? Where are you from?

You're from France? Beautiful accent, but we can't understand what you're saying.

Attorney General Bondi. [Inaudible]

Huh?

Attorney General Bondi. She said a vote at the Knesset on the West Bank.

The West Bank?

Is—don't worry about the West Bank. Israel is not going to do anything with the West Bank. Okay? Don't worry about it. Is that your question? They're not going to do anything with the West Bank. Don't worry about it. Israel is doing very well. They're not going to do anything with it.

Yes, please. Go ahead.

Border Security/Illegal Immigration

And I also have a question for the Secretary of War as well after your answer, if that's okay.

Well, the biggest thing we can do is make sure they don't come in, because open borders, it's—they would destroy. It's amazing that our country is even surviving with what we went through, coming in by the millions and coming in from the wrong places.

You know, I know all these people that run these countries. And they're smart. They're very street smart. And they're not sending their best. You know, they're not sending—they're taking them out of their prisons and their mental institutions, as I say, over and over again. They're the drug dealers. They're the drug addicts. They're people that don't work.

I mean, the best of them are people that don't work. They don't work. They're on welfare, their form of welfare, which is tiny. Do you know what their form of welfare is? They give you a piece of paper. They give you give you nothing. But they want people that work. They don't let those people come out because they want those people. You know, they cherish those people. Those are the people that make their country run.

They give us all of the people that don't work and are murderers—11,843 murderers came in. Eleven thousand eight hundred-—many of them committed—more than 50 percent committed more than one murder. Now, why do we want them? Why would Biden and that group of thugs that he had working for him—why would they accept these people? Why would he accept?

Nobody understands it. You know, they say maybe they wanted the vote, but I did great with the Hispanic vote. But these are people from all over the world. Why would they do it? It's the one question—no matter what I do, I can't—you always like to know the opponent. You have an opponent. What are they getting at? And usually, you can.

Why would they allow 20 million, maybe 25 million people into this country—almost all of which but most of which should not have been allowed into our country? It's one of the great enigmas. What they've done to this country should never be forgotten in history. Should never, ever be forgotten.

And now it looks like we're going to have a communist mayor in New York. That'll be a lot of fun. But remember this: They have to go through the White House.

Yes, please. Go ahead.

Binance Holdings Ltd. Founder Changpeng Zhao/Crypto Currency and Digital Finance

Which one? Who's that?

Oh, the recent one, yes. The—I believe we're talking about the same person because I do pardon a lot of people. I don't know. He was recommended by a lot of people. A lot of people say that—are you talking about the crypto person?

A lot of people say that he wasn't guilty of anything. He served 4 months in jail, and they say that he was not guilty of anything, that what he did——

Well, you don't know much about crypto. You know nothing about—you know nothing about nothing. You're fake news.

But let me just tell you that he was somebody that, as I was told—I don't know him. I don't believe I've ever met him. But I've been told by—a lot of support; he had a lot of support. And they said that what he did is not even a crime. It wasn't a crime. That he was persecuted by the Biden administration. And so I gave him a pardon at the request of a lot of very good people.

Yes, please. Yes, Daniel [Daniel Baldwin, One America News Network].

Homeland Security Task Force/Use of Military Personnel in U.S. Cities/"No Kings" Political Demonstrations

This is the kind of question I like, right here.

Well, the best thing we have going is we have such talent around this table. I could go over every one of these men and women, and we have unbelievable talent. They've got—they're naturals. You know, like somebody that hits a baseball or a golf ball or a—you know, that you see more—it's more evident. It's beautiful. Because it's sports. You can tell somebody right away—are they good or are they not?

These people are the most talented people at what they do. And when we started talking about this, Stephen and all of us, it was—it seemed so easy. What is surprising to me is how quickly we can straighten out a large city, a big city, a mean city, a city that's sick, that got very sick with guns all over the place, with bullets shooting all over, where you—I mean, you take your life in your hands if you go out and buy a loaf of bread.

That's not America. That's not our country. And those people don't care how you do it. They just want it done. They really do. You know, when you go to the people on the street, they're not—they don't know. Is it National Guard? They just want it done. They want to be safe.

And we've gained a great following of Americans—real Americans, people that want to be safe. But I think the biggest thing we say is we have tremendous talent. We were able to recognize—like a football team, like a baseball team—we were able to recognize the talent.

And the talent is largely in this room. For the whole country, it's largely in this room. There's really nothing like it. And that's why in—I think we had DC done not perfectly, but pretty much done—at least normalized—in 12 days. Wouldn't you say 12—would you say 12 days? On the 12th day, it felt different. And then—and, you know, we took a lot of bad people out, never to—never to come back again than—most of them never to come back again.

But there's great talent. And there's also great courage. It's—you know, it's—I've been watching what goes on. And then you have the radical-left lunatics. And what's that all about? I mean, they're fighting us because we want to stop crime. Where do these people come from? They're paid money. I guess they're paid a lot of money. But—like I saw that ridiculous march the other day. I say, "These people are not representative of our country." And not all of them, of course, but many of them are total lowlifes. These are lowlifes. These are people that are paid agitators. And they're not representative of our country.

So I don't know. I can just tell you that our country has tremendous spirit right now. You know that better than anybody because you cover it well. But we have a lot of people that are very happy right now with the direction.

They did a poll the other day. The direction of our country is better than it's been in 37 years. And I'm upset because I think it's because—it should be better than that, you know? [Laughter] I actually said we should be better than that. So you know.

Thank you very much for your question.

Brian [Brian Glenn, Real America's Voice]. Brian.

Missing Children Recovered/Former President Barack Obama/Border Security

Thank you.

Yes.

Well, it's hundreds of thousands were lost through Biden and the Biden administration. And we are getting a lot of them back, but they're either dead, they're slaves, they're captured in some form.

But think of it: Hundreds of thousands we're talking about. Not even believable. And they came in through the border. They were sold. They were bargained for. And this was all Biden, meaning Biden and Obama. The same—you know, the same mentality, frankly. I think it's the same mentality.

Let me tell you, Barack Hussein Obama was a lousy President. A lot of bad things happened. Remember when they used to talk about Trump with the jail cells? Well, he built the jail cells for the children. He built those jail cells.

Remember that came out? "But, sir, they were built in 2014." Do you remember when that came out, after me going through that stuff for about 2 weeks? And then they found out it was Barack Obama that built those jail cells. No, these people are—they were bad leaders.

I hope we don't have it again. I hope we don't have it again, because, you know, our country has come back a long way, but it can only withstand so much, and we don't want to ever go through that again. We never want to have open borders again. We don't want to have—we don't want to have men playing in women's sports. We don't want to have transgender for everybody. We don't want that. We want to have a great country with low interest rates, nice housing, great education, a strong military. The basics.

Yes, please.

Prison Facilities/Border Security/Tren de Aragua Criminal Organization

Well, it's not good. I guess it's not a very nice place, but you need it. You know, you need—you need something. You have a lot of additional people in New York City that should not have been here. They came here through the open border, through Biden's—you know, I don't know how they even do it. New York City has always been tight for money, and then they spend, you know, $8 billion—and nobody complains about it—on people that just showed up and they just came out of nowhere. Where did they get the money? All of a sudden, they have money.

I'll tell you what, we have to keep our prisons very fair and very safe. But you got a lot of criminals. We have a lot of additional criminals. I used to talk about it. They used to say, "Well, only good people come in from foreign countries." I said, "That's not right." I didn't know that for a fact, but it had just started—right?—the open borders and people flowing in by the millions. They make our criminals look like the nicest people on Earth. That's the only good thing. They make our criminals look like nice people.

They are the meanest, the most vicious. Tren de Aragua, you don't get any sicker. They cut people's fingers off because they called the cop. "Did you call the cop?" "Yes." They cut off his finger so he can't call the cop anymore. And then they say, "Next time we're going to cut off your hand if you call." Because they took over his apartment in Colorado. You know, Colorado, they took over a town, then they took over another town. And you have a weak Governor over there. He doesn't know what the hell he's doing, so he lets it go on.

But we're getting them out of here. We're getting them all out. They're going back to lots of—not just Venezuela. They're going back to lots of countries. Venezuela would be one, however.

Yes, please.

Yes.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

No, we will go, I said.

We will go.

We're going to go. I don't see any loss in going. No reason not to. You know, they'll always complain, "Oh, we should have gone." So we're going to definitely—I'd like to just say tell you, let's go. We'll go. We're going to tell them——

——what we're going to do, and I think they're going to probably like it except for the radical-left lunatics.

Well, I don't think we're going to necessarily ask for a declaration of war. I think we're just going to kill people that are bringing drugs into our country, okay? We're going to kill them. You know, they're going to be, like, dead. Okay.

Yes.

Yes, red hair.

Beautiful red hair.

This is a question for both you and the Secretary of War, Mr. Hegseth.

Who are you with?

U.S. Armed Forces Recruitment Efforts

Yes, go ahead, Pete.

One big thing that has happened though, because you mentioned expansion and expand our efforts. So, when I was running for office, second term, everybody was talking about the fact that nobody wanted to join the military, nobody wanted to join the great police force. You know, they didn't want to join New York's Finest or any of our police forces. They didn't want to join anything having to do almost, like, with the country, with the uniform.

We are setting records with the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Space Force, Coast Guard. We're setting records. We've never had anything like it. And I'll tell you when it started: November 5. We didn't even have to wait until January 20. They saw spirit. And now we have people coming in that are—it's unbelievable.

And if we wanted to increase our military force, if we wanted to increase any one of these, including police forces, they can now get men. People didn't want to be policemen and women. They didn't want to be firemen and women. They didn't want to go into the military. We were having tremendous recruiting problems, and now we're setting records.

We literally—last year at this time, you were doing stories that the recruitment was a disaster. We couldn't get men and women to go into the military. Now we have such an overabundance. We've never had—I mean, it's—as I understand it, it's like record-setting recruitment. This is in less than a year. It's been amazing. So this is a good time to expand if we want to do it, and I think we should. I think we should, and we probably will.

Yes, please.

Yes. Blue. Blue.

Federal Law Enforcement Support in U.S. Cities/U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

I guess we'll do that. I'm not a big app guy. I'm not into that too much. I think Pam might be. Let's go. Good answer there.

Attorney General Bondi. Yes. Yes. These organizations, President Trump, are coming in, and there are apps to track our Federal law enforcement officers, and it jeopardizes their lives—where they're going to be, their location. And we've actually been working really well with the tech companies who have been cooperating, because they don't want our law enforcement officers to get injured. So yes.

Well, I mean, I see it with ICE where they're having—you know, where they define where they live, who they are. And you know, I wasn't—I didn't take—I didn't have a big view on the masks, but I now understand why they should wear masks. I think it's very dangerous for them not to wear masks. They can do whatever they want. I noticed some do it and some don't. But it's pretty dangerous.

But when you look at—you know, you talk about that question, I think it's very dangerous, and I think you're coming down on that very hard, right?

Attorney General Bondi. We are.

Yes, please. Go ahead.

Anticorruption Enforcement/"No Kings" Political Demonstrations

Yes.

We're doing that. Yes, we're trying to do that.

Yes, where the money is coming from. Because you see it. Like even that garbage deal they had this weekend, which was embarrassing to them, and the crowds were much smaller. The crowds were not big. Those crowds were not big at all. But when you look at signs, and they're all made beautifully, the yellow signs—I saw the yellows, the blues—but they're all made professionally in a printing shop, looks like on Madison Avenue someplace. Some guy is paying for all that stuff.

And we don't mind protests. Protests is a good thing. I protest. I'm always protesting, right? But when you see some of these people, these people are going crazy. They're going crazy because they're getting paid, because there's no reason for them to be going crazy.

But you watch some of them and they're professional agitators, and we are finding out who's paying them, yes. We have a lot of information about who they are. You're going to be very surprised when you find out.

Yes. Go ahead, please. Blue.

Pardons and Commutations/Virginia Democratic Attorney General Candidate Jerrauld C.C. "Jay" Jones/Past Investigations and Prosecutions of the President/Democratic Party

Yes, very proud of that. Yes.

No. You have thousands of people that we're dealing with. And you know, if one goes haywire—look at what this guy in Virginia said where he wanted to kill his opponent. He's going to kill his opponent. He's going to kill his opponent's children and, I think, wife. And he continues to run, and the Democrats continue. He's running for what—attorney general in Virginia? Look what he said.

So now do you think all Democrats should be prohibited from living anymore? I mean, think of what he said: He's going to kill his opponent and he's going to kill the children of his opponent and, I think, the wife. I said this guy is sick. That is a sick guy and how do you vote for somebody like that?

But I don't view that every Democrat would say that because not every Democrat would say that. So you can't—you know, you could have one person, but I don't—I don't know of the incident.

I can say we're very proud of what we did. We had the courage to do something that should have been done. The problem: Sometimes the Republicans are too nice. They're a very nice party. The Democrats play a much dirtier fight. You know, it's amazing, you go after dirty cops like Comey, and you go after—these are dirty cops. Letitia James is a dirty cop.

You go after these people, and they say how horrible—horrible you are. And yet, I got indicted five times and impeached twice. Nobody says anything about that. You know, they say, oh—they actually said the other day, "Oh, he's trying to indict somebody." I got indicted four or five times—huh, Todd? Maybe more than that. [Laughter] Yes. I think you could—you could say 87 times if you really think about it, right? With the 80—with the charges. A bunch of phony guys. But nobody says anything about that. But they mention it the other way.

No, the Democrats play a very dirty game. It's all they're good at. They're good at a couple of things: cheating on elections and playing very dirty.

And they have one good trait: They stick together. They stick together. They stick together through the worst policies that anybody has ever seen. It's unbelievable how they stick together. And I respect them for sticking together. But it's a dead party because their policies are no good.

Okay.

Brian. We'll do a few more and we'll go home.

Wow.

Well, you know, I'm not going to comment on that. I would just say Adam Schiff is one of the lowest forms of scum I've ever dealt with in politics. He's a horrible human being. A very dishonest person. I have no idea what's going on. You tell me that he's going to be indicted. I don't know. You could ask Pam. I don't know if she's—she could say it. Probably, you are allowed to say it, but I wouldn't know about that.

I can only tell you he's a bad—I think he's actually a sick person.

Do you want to talk about that?

Attorney General Bondi. We're not going to comment on any grand jury that's open. We can't, legally.

I don't know.

By the way, I hope it's true, but I don't know anything about it. [Laughter]

Yes, please.

White House Ballroom Construction Project/White House Renovations

Oh, millions of dollars. Yes.

Well, I also give—you know, I give a lot of money to the White House. The White House is—as you know, I give my salary. And I usually like to steer it to the White House, because this house was a little bit abandoned. First of all, for 4 years you had a guy walking around that didn't know where the hell he was. And this—this house was not taken care of the way it was supposed to be.

I take very good care of property. I was very good at that. And you'll notice the floors downstairs, I paid for them. Marble. The most beautiful marble you've ever seen. The white floors down in the Palm Room, which were—they looked like they came out of—I don't want to lose, because they're big supporters of mine—Home Depot. So I'm not going to say bad, but they did come out of a box from Home Depot about 30 years ago. They were all broken. But now they have the most beautiful floors, the most beautiful lights and chandeliers.

I think most of you—Brian, you've seen that, right?

How beautiful is that? And I take care of it. So I spend millions of dollars on this building, taking care of it. It was not properly maintained, and now it's starting to gleam like it should. It should really gleam.

And you should go down and visit the "Presidential Walk of Fame." Have you seen it? It's quite—quite good. I'm sure that a lot of people coming to the White House—it's hot. It's very hot. But it's really a tribute to the Presidents, past Presidents of our country.

Yeah, please.

Yes, behind you, please. Yes, go ahead.

Go ahead.

Immigration Enforcement Actions

Are you asking me that question?

They are arresting bad criminals. And they're really good at it too. I look at the numbers. You know, they always like to say that, "Oh, you're arresting this or that." Then when you check it, you find out—yeesh, almost every single time. And you know, obviously, every once in a while, they may get one wrong, but they always correct it. They're able to correct it.

But they are arresting really bad people. They're arresting people that kill, people that would cut your throat and not even care about it.

These are brave people. And it's very dangerous. And if they go even a little bit too far, they get into trouble, you know, which is a shame. I protect them, but they get into trouble. But they're arresting very serious criminals, and they're getting them out of here.

Okay, one or two more.

Doug [Doug Mills, New York Times]—Doug, do you have a question?

I'd love to have Doug have a question, our great photographer—[laughter]—because he's such a great guy. And he might be the most talented person over there. I don't know. Huh?

Go ahead. Let's hear your question. This is—this guy is a real beauty.

Transnational Criminal Organizations /Illegal Immigration/Tariffs

Right.

No, the cartels are very bad. They had a lot of bad people coming in. They were interviewed recently, and they were asking people what their problem was. And one guy said, "Yes, I was—I'm up for murder." Didn't know what he was saying, obviously. You know, I'm sure his lawyer was not thrilled with his statement.

But no, they're rough people coming into those cartels. Those cartels are rough. You look at what happens—the trip up. The trip up is horrible, especially for women. They're being killed. They're being raped at levels that nobody thought even possible. In my opening speech, I mentioned that, but in a very light way. I mentioned the word rape. Then I found out that—you take a look at what happens in those cartels. It's horrible what's going on.

And we're doing the world a big service by just telling them—you know, they're not—you don't have too many cartels now because they know when they get up here, they're going to be stopped.

Under Biden, they were just flowing into the country. It didn't matter what you were, where you came from, what you looked like, what your record. They didn't check records. Millions of people came into this country that should not be in our country right now. We've gotten a lot of them out. It's the single biggest problem that we were given.

Inflation, I've already taken care of. Economically, the country is the strongest it's ever been. Thank God for tariffs. If we didn't have tariffs, we'd be a third-world nation. But thank God for tariffs. We're the richest nation in the world now because of tariffs. And we're able to economically protect ourself. And we're able to really protect ourself from a national security, you know, situation.

But we have cartels that—you know, I—somebody came up with the word cartel. I won't tell you who that person was, but you got a lot of bad people in the cartels.

And you could look at a country like Mexico. And I really respect the President. I really respect a lot of the people over there, but—a lot of the leadership. But they are in fear in their own country because those cartels are running those countries, okay?

And that includes Colombia. Colombia is a drug den. It's a drug den, and it has been for a long time. You got a lousy leader over there right now, bad guy, a thug. But they make cocaine at levels that we've never seen before. And they sell it back into this—and they're not going to get away with it much longer. We're not going to put up with it much longer.

Colombia is very bad. Mexico is run by the cartels. I have great respect for the President, a woman that I think is a tremendous woman. She's a very brave woman. But Mexico is run by the cartels, and we have to defend ourselves from that.

Go ahead. Let's go with you. Go ahead. Let's listen to this beauty.

Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations/Democratic Party

Do I expect to have it resolved by the time I return? I don't know. I said long ago, we shouldn't have been in this problem. This was September 28. It came due in Biden's regime, and—before the election, September 28. And they pushed it off into the future. And I was running when they did that.

And when you're running, you know—but I did say, "What the hell are they doing?" That and debt ceiling. You know, they also pushed the debt ceiling past the election date. So, that would mean the next President has it. But I did say that—I think the Democrats have gone totally crazy. And you don't know what they're going to do, because they don't care about the people. They don't—I really think they have no leadership. They have a lot of very low-IQ people. Jasmine Crockett is a low-IQ person. A lot of them are. I don't want to insult too many of them, but a lot of them are. They have no rudder. I don't think they know what they're doing right now. You know, they've never done this before.

They always agreed to go and, you know, called an extension. "Let's do an extension and talk." Even today—look at what happened today. They wouldn't even—they don't want to pay the people that have worked. And you know, this was supposed to be sort of—this was a test. And they wouldn't pay the people that have been working.

They said, "No, no, we don't want to pay them." This is all the Democrats. Now, all we need is five Democrats, and I know a lot of Democrats that are saying—they're more than five—probably not that many more than five, but they're more than five. And all we need is, like, five Democrat votes and we open our country again.

Sad, though. We have the greatest economy in our history, we have the highest stock market, all these things are rocking. We have—we will have, by the end of my first year, more than $20 trillion of investment. The alltime record is $3 trillion. I think it's China. We're going to have $20- or $21 trillion—we've never had anything like it—coming in because of tariffs, the money pouring into our country, the plants that are opening. AI, automotives, everything.

And the Democrats want to close our country. They're really—you know, they say deranged. They are—they suffer—I guess it's Trump derangement syndrome, which I think is going down now as an official condition by the doctors.

I think they get paid extra money if they handle it because it's more difficult to handle than a normal mental disease.

But you know what? They really should approve an extension, get the country back to work, get the people paid. And you know, it's very simple. You can't—you just don't know what's going on. There's something wrong with them. You know, it's sad, actually.

White House Ballroom Construction Project

Yes.

Actually, we've raised, I think, $350 million. All donor money and money that we put up. We've raised—it's going to be—it's going to cost right in the neighborhood of $300 million. It's been expanded and made absolutely—it will be the most beautiful ballroom anywhere in the world, I think.

How much am I donating?

I won't be able to tell you until I finish, but I'll donate whatever is needed. I'll tell you that.

Do I have a name for the——

I won't get into that now. [Laughter]

Yes. Go ahead, please.

Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations/Payroll Support for U.S. Servicemembers

Yes. By the way, a man—a friend of mine—talking about donors—a friend of mine, a man that's great—I'm not going to use his name unless he lets me do it. Susie can tell you about this.

But he was—he called us the other day, and he said, "I'd like to contribute any shortfall you have because of the Democrat shutdown. I'd like to contribute—personally contribute any shortfall you have with the military because I love the military, and I love the country. And any shortfall, if there's a shortfall, I'll contribute it." And today he sent us a check for $130 million.

I would love to tell you. He deserves—he doesn't really want the recognition, if you want to know the truth. But he gave us a check for $130 million——

——which was sort of a shortfall. Yes. No, it's going to go to the military, yeah.

Is that the correct number? $130 million. That's what I call a patriot.

Okay. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Another day in paradise.
