Does anybody recognize this man? [Laughter] Not too many people. They've been very fair, actually, for the last 3 days.

Okay.

Go ahead. Go ahead.

U.S. Cease-Fire Agreement Between Hamas and Israel

Very quickly. As quickly as we can.

But there has to be a disarmament. You know that. We have to disarm with Hamas. So one of the things we'll talk about, certainly, but there has to be a disarming of Hamas. Otherwise, very quickly.

Yes.

Venezuela/U.S. Drug Interdiction Efforts

Well, it doesn't matter, but there was a major explosion in the dock area where they load the boats up with drugs. They load the boats up with drugs. So we hit all the boats, and now we hit the area—it's the implementation area. That's where they implement, and that is no longer around.

I don't want to comment on that.

Russia/Ukraine

No, I don't know about it, actually. And I don't—I just heard about it, actually, but I don't know about it. That——

That would be too bad. That would not be good.

I mean, we have a few very thorny issues, as you can imagine. He knows about thorny issues, probably better than anybody in the world. But it's working out. We have a couple of issues that we're going to get resolved, hopefully, and if we get them resolved, you're going to have peace.

You're going to have Ukraine—they're losing 26,000 soldiers a month. Can you believe it? A month. Twenty-six thousand young, beautiful soldiers, and plus some people in Kyiv and—relatively small, but a lot—you know, still people, and it's a lot of people. But 26,000 soldiers were killed last month.

Yes, please.

Turkey/Gaza, Palestinian Territories

So I have a great relationship with President Erdoğan, and we'll be talking about it. And if it's good, I think that's good. And a lot will be having to do with Bibi. We're going to be talking about that.

But Turkey has been great, and he's been, you know, excellent, as far as I'm concerned. I don't know about you, but—[inaudible].

To me, he's been—to me, he's been very good.

Sure. Please.

You had the wrong Prime Minister, Israel right now would not exist, because they were——

——they were met with a force the likes of which very few countries could have handled. And we worked together, and we were extremely victorious, to put it mildly.

Now I hear that Iran is trying to build up again, and if they are, we're going to have to knock them down. We'll knock them down. We'll knock the hell out of them. But hopefully, that's not happening.

I heard Iran wants to make a deal. If they want to make a deal, that's much smarter.

You know, they could have made a deal the last time before we went through, you know, a big attack on them. And they decided not to make a deal. They wish they made that deal.

So I think, again, they should make a deal. They want to make a deal, but sometimes that doesn't happen.

Yes, please.

Iran

Of who?

I'm not going to talk about overthrow of a regime. It's—they've got a lot of problems in Iran. They have tremendous inflation. Their economy is bust. Their economy is no good.

And I know their people aren't so happy. But don't forget, every time they have a riot or somebody forms a group, little or big, they start shooting people. You know, they kill people, and the people tend to—I've watched this for years. There's tremendous discontent. They form 100,000, 200,000 people. All of a sudden, people start getting shot, and that group disbanded pretty quickly. So I watched it for years. They're vicious, vicious people.

Yes.

Iran/Ballistic Missile Program

If they will continue with——

——the missiles, yes; the nuclear, fast. Okay? One will be, yes, absolutely. The other was, we'll do it immediately.

Gaza, Palestinian Territories

Well, we're going to be dealing on Gaza. That's why this very great Prime Minister is here right now. We're talking about Gaza. We're talking about a lot of things. We have about five major subjects that we're discussing, and Gaza will be one of those subjects.

Hostages Held in Gaza, Palestinian Territories

Well, let's put it this way: Every hostage, just about, that's been released was released because of me, Steve Witkoff, Jared Kushner, my whole team—Marco Rubio, Pete Hegseth. They were all released because of us. None were released in the Biden administration. None. They were all released because of us.

Then we had a lack of releases with respect to the dead. And all of a sudden, they started coming back, because I said, "Nope, you said you were going to"—we have one wonderful young man, whose parents are right now inside, and he's—what beautiful parents, a beautiful brother, sister, and—like, a beautiful family. And they're waiting for their son. He's the only one left, and we're doing everything we can to get his body back. And the parents just said, "Hopefully, he's alive." And I said, "I'd love you to think that way." Okay?

So we're doing everything we can.

But think of it. Out of all of these people—and I'm not just talking about the final 20.

Look at all of the people. What do you think the total number is?

Nobody else got them.

Trump, does the reconstruction of Gaza——

Hold on one second. Yes, I'll do you. Just let her go.

Go ahead, please.

Gaza Reconstruction

I think it's going to begin pretty soon, yes.

He's looking forward to it. So am I. Look, what a mess. What a mess it is. And it's been a mess for centuries, really. [Laughter] It's been a mess for a long time. It's—seems to be born for that, but we're going to—we're going to straighten it out.

No, we're already starting certain things. We're doing things for sanitary conditions and others. But Gaza is a tough place. You know the expression: "It's a tough neighborhood." It's truly a tough—it's truly a tough neighborhood.

Yes, you had a question. In the back. Go ahead.

What about it? [Laughter]

It's—I don't think it can be better. We just won a big war together.

You know, if we didn't beat Iran, you wouldn't have had peace in the Middle East, because nobody would have been able. The Arab countries, who have been fantastic, would not have been able to make a deal. If we didn't wipe out their nuclear—we wiped it out. If we didn't wipe out, with our beautiful B–2 bombers—if we didn't—and we sent a lot of Tomahawks in there also, by the way, from a submarine.

Oh, I think he will. How do you not? He's a wartime Prime Minister who's a hero. How do you not give a pardon? You know, I think it's a very hard thing not to do it. I spoke to the President, and I—it's on—I mean, he tells me it's on its way.

You can't do better than that, right?

Please.

Venezuela/U.S. Airstrike on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Facility

It was along—well, I don't want to say that. I know exactly who it was, but I don't want to say who it was.

But you know, it was along the shore.

Pretty recently. Reasonably recent, but nothing much comes of it.

Yes.

You have to understand what he's done. They've sent billions of dollars of drugs in. But maybe just as bad, they've sent hundreds of thousands of people in from jails, from prisons, from mental institutions and insane asylums. The drug lords, the drug dealers were all sent into our country.

But think of it, what he's done. Tren de Aragua—probably the worst gang. They cut off people's fingers. One man made a phone call to complain about them. He cut off their hand. They cut off his hand. "Don't ever make a phone call again. We'll cut off your other hand. After that, we'll kill you," they said. That was in Colorado.

No, they sent in all of the bad ones. They sent in some bad people. And that, to me, was just terrible. And they sent in drugs.

Now, I will say this: 97 percent of the drugs coming in by sea stopped. We're trying to figure out who the other 3 percent are. I—they have a hard time getting people to pilot those boats. But 97 percent of the drugs coming in by the ocean, by the sea, by water are gone. Every boat that we take out, we save 25,000 lives of Americans.

Thank you very much, everybody.

We'll see you—we're going to have a big meeting, and we'll see you in a couple of hours, if you'd like. And if you'd like, you can come up and have lunch like you did yesterday.

Would you like that or not?

You want that?

Because some of them think it's terrible, it's a bribe. But—you know, a bribe for $25, I don't know.

If you'd like, you can go. And if you don't, you can stand in the driveway and melt. [Laughter] All right?

But if you want—will you work on that, Margo?

White House Communications Adviser Margo Martin. Yes, sir.

Is Margo doing a good job?

She's a star.

She's too nice. Her only problem: She's too nice to you, and you're not nice to us. But that's okay.

Margo, take them up and have a beautiful lunch.

Communications Adviser Martin. Yes, sir.

And we'll see you later.

You know who told me about it? President Putin told me about it. Early in the morning he said he was attacked.

That's no good. It's no good.

Don't forget: You know, the Tomahawks—I stopped the Tomahawks. I didn't want that, because we're talking about—you know, it's a delicate period of time. This is not the right time. It's one thing to be offensive because they're offensive. It's another thing to attack his house.

It's not the right time to do any of that and can't do it. And I learned about it from President Putin today. I was very angry about it.

Please.

What?

Well, it came out—it came out—well, we'll find out. I mean, you're saying maybe the attack didn't take place. It's possible too, I guess. But President Putin told me this morning it did.

Israel-U.S. Relations

And, Mr. Prime Minister, you've met—you've called President Trump the strongest friend for the State of Israel. You've worked with numerous administration, numerous Presidents. Can you expound on that and what makes President Trump such a strong friend for the State of Israel?

Why don't you go first?

Well, I just want to say that it's very important who the Prime Minister and President of Israel is. We have a great relationship.

It was an honor to speak before your leaders. That was a great honor for me. I think it has not happened before or something, they told me.

But the relationship has been extraordinary, and Bibi is a strong man. He can be very difficult on occasion, but you need a strong man. If you had a weak man, you wouldn't have Israel right now.

Israel would have been—you know, Israel, with most other leaders, would not exist today. They would not exist. And now they're stronger than ever.

Yes, please.

Syria

Well, I hope he's going to get along with Syria because the new President of Syria is working very hard to do a good job. He really is. I know he's a tough cookie, and he's—you know, you're not going to get a choir boy to lead Syria. That's the one thing I will say. [Laughter]

So I hope they're going to get along, because, you know, I took—I dropped the sanctions on Syria because, otherwise, they wouldn't have had a chance. We want to see Syria survive. So we're going to be talking about Syria too. Okay?

Thank you very much, everybody. Have a good time.

Go have a good lunch.

Thank you. Thank you.
