Well, thank you very much, and good afternoon. I'm delighted to welcome FIFA President Gianni Infantino one of the greatest men of sport. He's an amazing man. He's done an incredible job with FIFA.

Fédération Internationale de Football Association President Giovanni V. Infantino. Thank you.

Congratulations on the job.

I also want to thank Vice President J.D. Vance. J.D., wherever you may be. Where's J.D.?

Marco Rubio, who's doing a fantastic job, and Secretary Kristi Noem, who's doing a fantastic job, as well as Representative Darin LaHood. Thank you all very much. Hi, Darin.

This past summer, the United States hosted the 2025 FIFA Cup World Cup—Club World Cup, and it was great. I actually went to a match.

This will be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, even for our country, because, frankly, you know, this goes to countries—everybody wants it. I guess it's going all over the world. Do you know who's getting it the next time around? Who's getting it?

Well, we have the King coming—Crown Prince is coming tomorrow.

This will be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to showcase the greatness of American world-class athletic competition as we celebrate our Nation's 250th year.

The World Cup will also be an incredibly significant economic opportunity for countless American workers and businesses. It's expected to drive more than $30 billion, Gianni. I don't know about that. That sounds like a lot of money. [Laughter]

Since the creation of the White House FIFA Task Force earlier this year, Secretary Rubio's team at the State Department has worked tirelessly with the Department of Homeland Security to ensure that soccer fans from all around the world are properly vetted and able to come to the United States next summer—easily.

Before I took office, it would often take a year to get a travel visa, but because of the administration's hard work, now in more than 80 percent of the world—think of that—the wait time for a visa is 60 days or less.

For those who intend to join us for the World Cup, I strongly encourage you to apply right away. And I want to thank FIFA Task Force and Secretary Rubio for the great job. Marco's doing a fantastic job in many ways too. So I want to just thank you all for a great job. Marco, you're doing a great job——

We're also creating what we're calling the FIFA Prioritized Appointment Scheduling System. That's a hard one for most people to remember. [Laughter] But it's there, nevertheless. And this will allow World Cup ticket holders with long wait times to opt with FIFA for a prioritized interview.

And I've directed my administration to do everything within the power to make the 2026 World Cup an unprecedented success. I think it's going to be the greatest. And we are setting records on ticket sales. Nobody's ever really—and FIFA's never—you know, if you look at the numbers, nobody's ever seen anything like the kind of numbers we're doing. The early ticket sales are through the roof, and much of it is even sold out.

And I'd like to ask Gianni to say a few words. He's really done an incredible job. He's got unbelievable spirit and personality and talent and intelligence, I always like to say, because it's all a part of it. But the job you've done is, based on what's happening, unprecedented.

Thank you, Gianni.

The FIFA PASS is being announced that Prioritized Appointment Scheduling System. That's the way people will remember it. So, if you have a ticket for the World Cup, you can have a prioritized appointment to get your visa, because we said it the very first time we met, Mr. President: America welcomes the world. America will welcome the world here next year.

We will have between 6 and 7 million tickets sold for the matches. We'll have between 5 and 10 million people coming to America from all over the world to enjoy the World Cup. And with this FIFA PASS, we can make sure that those who buy a ticket that are legitimate football fans, or soccer fans, they can come and attend the World Cup in the best conditions, starting from getting their visa and then coming, of course, in the country to enjoy.

You mentioned the economic impact—the $30 billion, 200,000 jobs—and this is just for the World Cup. And we'll build on that to make soccer even greater.

Here, you are the number-one country in the world, the United States of America, Mr. President. You have to be the number-one country, as well, in the number-one sport in the world. [Laughter]

So we have to work for that, and we will do that. And the World Cup will be very, very significant in this respect.

So big, big thank you to you, to the White House Task Force, to everyone involved. And we are celebrating the next year not just the 250 years, but also the greatest and most inclusive World Cup ever. We'll have 6 billion people watching.

We have the draw coming up on the 5th of December here at the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC. One billion people watching the draw to find out who plays whom and where. We have 32 teams already qualified. Before or by tomorrow night, we'll have 42 out of 48 qualified. So a quarter of the world will be here, and we are looking very much forward.

So thanks. Thanks for the support. Thanks for the great work, and always happy to be here at home, if I can say that. [Laughter]

That's great. You are home. We are. It's your beautiful trophy right there.

Marco, would you say a few words, please?

It's going to be great. It's going to be great.

Andrew, would you like to say something?

White House Task Force on the FIFA World Cup 2026 Executive Director Andrew Giuliani. Sure. I think——

Then we'll have somebody much more important——

Executive Director Giuliani. [Laughter] Much more important. And honestly, without her work, without Secretary of State Rubio's work in the State Department, this would not happen. And without your leadership and your vision, this would not have happened.

I think two key points, one the Secretary of State already highlighted: This is a welcoming message to the world, without going around the safety and security procedures. It's so key to make sure that this World Cup is safe and secure, and the White House task force is working every day to make sure that's the case. And also, as Congressman LaHood said, the economic benefits for American businesses, both small and large, from a $30 billion event like this.

So, really, thanks to all the White House Task Force members, from Secretary Rubio to Secretary Noem to notice of funding opportunities that went out to the cities and states last months were really key from the safety and security perspective; to Deputy Chief of Staff Luna, who is integral in this whole process; to the White House Task Force members that are standing in the back of the room today and that couldn't be here, without your hard work, this would not have happened. And I really can't thank you enough for, really, the best team I've ever been a part of.

And also, to FIFA; to the president, Gianni Infantino; my good friend Carlos Cordiero—your desire to make this World Cup the best yet, it's contagious. Every single day, I come in and think, "What can we"—"What can we do to make this even better?"

And, Mr. President, your vision, more than anything. I think it takes a unique visionary to be able to go and see a sporting event and realize that this can be one of the greatest cultural events in world history. And I think there are very few people, aside from the 45th and 47th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, that can do that undertaking. So thank you.

Wow. Thank you very much.

Kristi, please.

Well, thank you. How many games are there, Gianni, total?

Expedited Visa Processing for FIFA World Cup Ticketholders

Yes.

Sure.

I'll let my guys do that because they can do it much better. And—either one of you two. Nick, would you like to talk about it?

White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Implementation Nicholas F. Luna. Sure. Well, Mr. President, without your leadership, this would not happen. And we came in, in 10 months we have a system that's going welcome the world. The greatest host in the history of the world is going to host the world here.

Basically, this system allows folks with a FIFA ticket purchased through FIFA to go through the FIFA portal that is then going to get prioritized with the State Department so that those appointments are going to be had before existing appointments so that people, when they buy tickets, they have confidence that they're going to be able to come to the games and spend their money and travel this country and do all the things that they want to do and enjoy the game.

So it's a incredible vision that the President executed here. Within 10 months—we started with really not that much. And so, this whole team here, with the President's guidance, has made this possible. It's going to be the greatest games in the history of the world.

Okay. Do you have that—[inaudible]?

Not too complicated.

Daniel [Daniel Baldwin, One America News Network], please. Daniel.

Economic Impact of World Cup

Yes, it's just a huge economic boon to this. You know, we had a little shutdown that was caused by the Democrats, and this will make up for it many times over. So that's good. But I think it's the importance of the event all over the world. The world is watching.

And it really is. It's like having, you know, many Super Bowls, actually. Each game is almost a Super Bowl. Some of them are, I guess you could say, bigger than Super Bowls. I guess when you get to the finals, it's of that level or more.

You know, when Gianni and I made the deal, I never thought I was going be President because I was supposed to be retired by that time. [Laughter] And I got a little lucky. So I'm very honored to have it.

And we have the Olympics coming too. That will be great. And the 250. The 250 is going be—right out on the lawn you're going to have a UFC event with Dana White and his people. He's going to have the greatest card the—they've ever assembled. I was talking to Dana White the other day, and they're going have the greatest card they've ever assembled. Gianni, see—you'll be sitting up there with me, Darin. We'll be watching it. So right opposite the front door of the White House. It's going to be on June 14. So it's really going to be an amazing period of time.

But this is something very, very special. World Cup. All my life, I've heard about it.

Yes.

The President's Health

I feel great. I was shouting at people because they were stupid about something having to do with trade in a country, and I straightened it out. But I blew my stack at these people because they're so stupid. [Laughter]

Sounds like there's a what?

Oh.

I thought you said there was a polyp, and I said—[laughter]—I don't want to hear that.

Okay.

Venezuela/Border Security

No, I don't rule out that. I don't rule out anything. We just have to take care of Venezuela. They dumped hundreds of thousands of people into our country from prisons. Nobody knows better than this——

So I'm not in love with the people running Venezuela. I love Venezuela. I love the people of Venezuela. But what they've done to this country—and I really say this: What Biden and the Democrats have done to this country can never ever be forgotten.

Probably would.

Yes, I probably would talk to him. Yes, I talk to everybody.

Go ahead, please.

Please, go ahead.

Immigration Reform/Worker Visas/Semiconductor Manufacturing

About what?

Yes.

Until they learn that, yes. Like, for instance, if you're going to be making chips. We don't make chips too much here anymore, but we are going to be. In a period of a year, we're going to have a big portion of the chip market.

But we have to train our people how to make chips because we didn't—we used to do it. And then, foolishly, we lost that business to Taiwan. Very, very foolishly, because if they had a President that thought like I did, they would not have let that happen. But it's all coming back.

I think we're going to have a—within a few years, we're going—and not because of the CHIPS Act. The CHIPS Act was a disaster for this country. We gave away billions of dollars to other countries and other locations and companies, and all they did was rob our money.

But because of tariffs, the chips are coming back. Chipmakers are all coming back. And I think, within a very short period of time, we're going to have—maybe even the majority of the chipmaking in the world will be right in the United States, where it should have been all along. But because we had people that didn't believe in tariffs—they believed in them, but they didn't know how to use them. We would have had nobody leaving our country right now, and instead, you have almost a hundred percent of the chips are made in Taiwan. It's so disgraceful.

The good news is, it's all coming back.

Yes, please. In the back.

The gentleman in the back.

Venezuela

It's hard to say that. You know, the question is a little bit tricky. I don't think it was meant to be tricky. It's just that, look, he's done tremendous damage to our country, primarily because of drugs, but really—because we have that problem with other countries too—but more than any other country, the release of prisoners into our country has been a disaster. He's emptied his jails. Others have done that also.

He has not been good to the United States. So we'll see what happens.

I'll—at a certain period of time, I'll be talking to him.

Well, I don't want to say.

No, no. A country who wanted to try and renegotiate the terms of their trade deal, and I wasn't happy about it.

Why would I say that to you? [Laughter] Why would I—I can't believe it.

World Cup Host Cities/Wildfires in Los Angeles, California

Yes, or beyond. Or beyond. I watched her. I——

That's more than socialism.

Well, if we think—and I'll have to speak to Gianni about this, but if we think that—the mayor of L.A. is incompetent. Everybody knows that. You know that I was there, I guess, 2 years ago, and we got all the Federal permits taken care of. Far more complex than the State permits and the city permits.

And Lee Zeldin, who's a superstar, got everything taken care of. The toughest part, you know, having to do with the fires—that should have never happened—if they let the water come in, it wouldn't have happened. Right?

Do you know that people aren't building their houses yet? I mean, can you imagine that? And if we didn't go in early on—Kristi, I think we can say it—well, the—the head of their police department said it: They were unable to handle it. You would've had—not only did you have the fires, but you would have had total insurrection in Los Angeles.

And if we didn't go in and the head of—you know the gentleman. He said it, and he said it strongly. He said, "We could not have done it"——

If we think there's going to be the sign of any trouble, I would ask Gianni to move that to a different city. We have a lot of cities that are—well, would love to have it, number one, and will do it very safely. So, if we think there's a problem in Seattle, where you have a very, very liberal/communist mayor—I would say, you know, it's certainly beyond just liberal. I watched her over the weekend. Wow. That's another beauty we got there.

But if we think there's going to be a problem, we'll—Gianni, can I say we will move? I don't think you're going to have this problem, but we're going to move the event to someplace where it's going to be appreciated and safe.

2028 Presidential Election

Well, he's a friend of mine. I mean, you know, I haven't spoken to him about it. It's a little early. It's 3¼ years. That's a long time. But he's a very good guy. He's a very good friend of mine. You remember we had a—quite a campaign against Ted, and it worked out quite nicely. Let's see, where are we? Oh, we're in the Oval Office. [Laughter]

But I'm not that surprised to hear that. [Inaudible]

Tariffs/Semiconductor Manufacturing

No, we've taken in——

——hundreds of millions of dollars in tariff money. We're going to be issuing dividends later on, some—somewhere prior to—you know, probably in the middle of next year, a little bit later than that—of thousands of dollars for individuals of moderate income, middle income.

We're going to pay down debt. You know, we have a lot of money from tariffs. If we didn't have tariffs, this nation would be in serious trouble. And we've taken in tremendous amounts of money. And you know what's more important than that? We've protected our businesses from being raided like we did with the chip business. Now we're bringing them all back.

But our—you know, we had a hundred percent of the chip industry, and then they left. They went mostly to Taiwan and South Korea, but mostly Taiwan. And they have almost a hundred percent. And we're going to have, within a short period of time, a big percentage of the chip business. They're coming back because of tariffs, because they don't want to pay the tariffs. Because the tariffs will be very steep if they don't come back. And they're all—they've committed to come back.

As you probably heard, Apple is now up to $700 billion. We have Nvidia at $600 billion. We have tremendous amounts of money pouring in.

Our country has become amazing again and really, really rich again.

I will say this. We have a decision we're waiting for. It's a very big decision.

The numbers that we've taken in, if you talk about investments, is trillions—not with a—not with a "b," not with an "m"—millions—but trillions of dollars. I can't imagine having to give that money back on something that we're allowed to do.

And the ones that are fighting us are countries—largely, they're backing countries that have been ripping us off for years—using tariffs to rip us off. And now we're able to defend ourselves.

It really is a matter of national security, because economic security is national security. So I think you're going to see another thing happening. I think you'll see food prices—they've come down very substantially since Biden. But I think you're going to see food prices coming down very substantially.

Saudi Arabia

Yes.

Yes.

Yes. No, I am planning on doing that. Yes. They——

They want to buy them. They've been a great ally. They've got to like us very much.

Look at the Iran situation, what we did in terms of obliterating, you know, their—we obliterated their nuclear capability.

Yes, I will say that we will be doing that. We'll be selling F–35s, yes.

Department of Justice Files Concerning Deceased Convicted Sex Offender Jeffrey Epstein

Yes.

I do want to—it—here's what I want: We have nothing to do with Epstein. The Democrats do. All of his friends were Democrats. You look at this Reid Hoffman, you look at Larry Summers, Bill Clinton, they went to his island all the—and many others. They're all Democrats.

All I want is, I want for people to recognize a great job that I've done on pricing; on affordability, because we brought prices way down, but they're going way lower; on energy; on ending eight wars and another one coming pretty soon, I believe.

We've done a great job, and I hate to see that deflect from the great job we've done. So, I'm all for it.

You know, we've already given 50,000 pages. You do know that.

Unfortunately, like with the Kennedy situation, with the Martin Luther King situation—not to put Jeffrey Epstein in the same category, but no matter what we give, it's never enough. You know, with Kennedy, we gave everything, and it wasn't enough. With Martin Luther King, we gave everything, and it's never enough.

We've already given—I believe the number is 50,000 pages.

Now, I believe that many of the people that we—some of the people that we mentioned are being looked at very seriously for their relationship to Jeffrey Epstein. But they were with him all the time. I wasn't. I wasn't at all. And we'll see what happens.

What I just don't want Epstein to do is detract from the great success of the Republican Party, including the fact that the Democrats are totally blamed for the shutdown. You know, they cost our country hundreds of billions of dollars with that and a lot of inconvenience.

So I'm for any—I don't—they could do whatever they want.

We'll give them everything.

Sure, I would. Let the Senate look at it, let anybody look at it, but don't talk about it too much because, honestly, I don't want it taking away from us.

It's really a Democrat problem. The Democrats were Epstein's friends, all of them. And it's a hoax. The whole thing is a hoax. And I don't want it taking away from, really, the greatness of what the Republican Party has accomplished over the last period of time.

Yes, please.

Federal Support for Farmers

Yes.

Yes, we want to——

I'm always going to help our farmers and——

I would do that, yes, if it's——

If they need relief, we'll be there for them. We'll—we're going to always be for our farmers.

Yes, please, in the back.

Federal Law Enforcement Support in U.S. Cities

Sure.

Well, you know——

——the Governors are going to have to behave. The mayors are going to have to behave. You know, in the case of California, you have a problem. You have high crime, and you have a place that just suffered great fires and everything else, and they didn't do a very good job.

And if we didn't go in, from the crime standpoint, you would have had a disaster. It would have been—it was not going to be handled properly. It wasn't able to be. The head of the police said without—as I said, without the Federal Government, they could not have done it.

So here's the story. I love Los Angeles. If they want help during this, I would love to send in National Guard or whoever's necessary to help them. I want it to be great. I'd love it to be in Los Angeles. I love the place. It's a natural for Los Angeles.

If we think they're going to—there's going to be crime, if we are obstructed by the Governor—and maybe he won't obstruct; maybe he'll be great—but I'd love him for—for him to call and say, "You know, we'd like to have some extra help." Because if there's even a hint of a problem, we want to get in there before the problem occurs. We want to make it totally safe for Gianni and FIFA and all of the great people that are going to be there. And I think that's going to happen.

I would—be honored to help California if they're going to have a problem. And if they think they're going to have a problem, they should say so. We can be in there in 24 hours' notice and do a great job.

Public Safety in the District of Columbia

Well, I think this: If they would tell us——

——if they would tell us now, they're not going to have a problem. Because if we go in, they don't have a problem.

Look at DC. There's no crime in DC anymore, and DC was a mess. If they want us to go in, I'd like them to tell us right now. But if we go in, there will be no problem. There will be no crime.

Tell your Governor to ask——

——for Federal help. We'd love to help them.

Mexico/U.S. Drug Interdiction Efforts/ U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific/Colombia

Would I want strikes in Mexico to stop drugs? It's okay with me. Whatever we have to do to stop drugs.

Mexico is—look, I looked at Mexico City over the weekend. There's some big problems over there. If we had to, would we do there what we have done to the waterways? You know, there's almost no drugs coming in through our waterways anymore.

Isn't it down like 85 percent?

Executive Director Giuliani. No, that's for sure. No, sir.

No, I think it's been—

Would I do that on the land corridors? I would—look, every boat we knock out, we save 25,000 American lives, not to mention the destruction of families. These families are decimated forever. The mother, the father, the children, they never recover really from it. You know, when you lose somebody like the way they—any—if you lose them, but the way they die is horrible.

So, when we knock out a boat and we save 25,000 lives, that's great.

Now, do I feel the same way about the—corridors that they use? We know every one of them. We have every one of those corridors under major surveillance.

Colombia is—has cocaine factories where they make cocaine. Would I knock out those factories? I would be proud to do it, personally. I didn't say I'm doing it, but I would be proud to do it because we're going to save millions of lives by doing it.

I wouldn't answer that question. I've been speaking to Mexico. They know how I stand. We're losing hundreds of thousands of people to drugs. So now we've stopped the waterways.

But we know every route. We know every route. We know the addresses of every drug lord. We know their address. We know their front door. We know everything about every one of them. They're killing our people. That's like a war.

Would I do it? I'd be proud to. I'd probably go into Congress and say, "Hey"—and you know what? The Democrats or the Republicans would both agree, unless they're crazy. And they are a little crazy on the Democrat side.

But——

——we have—lost hundreds of thousands of people a year—death. And that's not talking about family destruction. That's talking about death. And much of it comes through Mexico.

So let me just put it this way. I am not happy with Mexico. Okay?

Thank you very much, everyone.

Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you.

I'll tell you maybe next week.
