First of all, thank you for your enduring friendship with Prime Minister Abe over the years. In addition, thank you for extending gracious hospitality to Mrs. Akie Abe at the end of last year.

As a matter of fact, Prime Minister Abe often told me about your dynamic diplomacy. Most recently, Mr. President succeeded in securing a cease-fire deal between Thailand and Cambodia and contributed to ensuring peace in Asia. Also, the deal you have recently achieved in the Middle East is an unprecedented, historic achievement.

In such a short period of time, the world started to enjoy more peace on the ground. And, in this context, I highly value your unwavering commitment towards peace and stability. I myself was so impressed and inspired by you, Mr. President.

Now, both Japan and the United States have developed the greatest alliance in the world. And together with you, Japan is ready to contribute towards peace and stability.

On diplomacy, I am determined to restore dynamic Japan's diplomacy to protect Japan's own national interest. In addition, I am ready to promote further collaboration with you and with the United States toward our shared goal of achieving a free and open Indo-Pacific.

So let me share with you my determination. I will continue to strive as the leader of Japan to strengthen Japan's national power—namely diplomacy, defense capabilities, economic power, technology, intelligence, and human resources.

Next year, the United States will mark the semiquincentennial anniversary. Japan and I would like to join the United States to have a magnificent celebration. We will extend a gift of 250 cherry trees to Washington, DC. In addition, I understand that fireworks from Japan, from Akita Prefecture, will be shown in Washington, DC, on July 4 next year.

Through these efforts, together with you, Mr. President, I would like to realize a new golden age of Japan-U.S. alliance, where both Japan and the United States will become stronger and also more prosperous.

Thank you.

Well, I want to thank you very much, and I want to congratulate you.

As you know, Shinzo Abe was a great friend of mine, and I was very saddened to see what happened. It was so shocking. But he spoke so well of you, even before we knew what was going to happen and your ascension. He spoke so well of you, long before we met. And I'm not surprised to see that you are now the Prime Minister, and he would be very happy to know that. And I congratulate you on behalf of the United States of America.

I know that you are increasing your military capacity very substantially, and we've received your orders for a very large amount of new military equipment. And you know that we make the best military equipment in the world: the jets, the missiles, and everything else. And hopefully, we don't have to use them very much, if at all. But we appreciate that order, and we very much appreciate the trade.

We're going to do tremendous trade together—I think more than ever before. We're just signing a new deal, and it's a very fair deal, and we look forward to welcoming Japan into the United States and a continuation. And it's something that everybody is very, very excited about.

I have always had a great love of Japan and a great respect of Japan. And I will say that this will be a relationship that will be stronger than ever before, and I look forward to working with you. And on behalf of our country, I want to just let you know: Anytime you have any question, any doubt, anything you want, any favors you need, anything I can do to help Japan, we will be there. We are an ally at the strongest level, and it's a great honor to be with you, especially so early in what will be, I think, one of the greatest Prime Ministers.

I think you will be one of the great—everything I know, from Shinzo and others, you will be one of the great Prime Ministers.

I'd also like to congratulate you on being the first woman Prime Minister. That's a big deal. That's a big deal, and I want to congratulate you on that. I think that has to be called out. And you're going to do a fantastic job, and we're going to have a fantastic relationship.

Thank you very much.
