China/Taiwan

Well, I'll be talking about Taiwan. Won't be going there, but I'll be talking about it. Won't be too far away. A lot of respect for Taiwan.

Canada got caught cheating on a commercial. Can you believe it?

No, I don't have any plan to.

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Benefits

Yes, everybody is going to be in good shape. Yes.

White House Ballroom Construction Project/Proposed Triumphal Arch

Well, we raised a lot. We've raised over $350 million. It's a beautiful room, a big room. I don't have any plan to call it after myself. That was fake news. Probably going to call it the "Presidential Ballroom" or something like that. We haven't really thought about a name yet.

Well, it could even be more than that. Probably, possibly, assuming we can do that—you know, we're building the arc, and maybe we'll use it for the arc.

Looks like we might. You know, we're going to be building the arc, and we've raised a lot of money for the ballroom, so maybe we'll put—the arc is going to be incredible for Washington, DC. So, maybe we'll use it for the arc.

Off-Year Elections in Virginia and New Jersey

Well, I hope she wins. I mean, the other person is horrible. She's horrible. And the attorney general candidate talking about, you know, killing the children and—him and the children, the wife, everybody. I mean, how can you put a guy like that in office? So I hope they both win. I hope she wins. I hope the attorney general wins.

Yes.

And I think you have a great Republican candidate in New Jersey, as you know. Jack is going to be great, and he's going to cut your energy bills in half. And she's going to double your energy bill.

So New Jersey—just on energy alone—and other costs—but on energy alone, I think Jack should win. He's going to cut—I'll tell you what, I know him well. He's going to cut your energy bills in half.

Ontario Province Advertisement Critical of U.S. Tarriff Policy

Well, you know, it's a crooked ad. I heard he's airing it—Canada. That's why I pulled everything. We—Canada, they wrote a—they did a crooked ad. They know it was a—Ronald Reagan loved tariffs. What they did is really dishonest, and I heard they were pulling the ad. I didn't know they were putting it on a little bit more. They could have pulled it tonight.

Well, that's dirty playing——

——but I can play dirtier than they can. You know?

Really, very dishonest.

He's a drug dealer. The President of Colombia is a drug dealer.

Australia-U.S. Relations

Well, I talked to the—yes, I'm talking to your—as you know, your leader was just here. And he's a great guy. And I'm going to make sure we have somebody that he likes.

I have one or two people. I didn't know if they would like them. I do. I have somebody in mind.

Here's the good news: Everybody wants to be Ambassador to Australia.

Say it?

No, I don't know anything about him.

I don't—you know, I think he said, long time ago, something bad. You know, when they say bad about me, I don't forget.

Consumer Price Index Data

Very good. Very good. We have great financial numbers. We have an economy that is going to be the strongest ever. We had a new stock market high, and we're doing great.

This country—this country is doing—I think, very soon, I can say better than ever before.

State Affairs Commission President Kim Jong Un of North Korea

Yes, I'd like to.

I don't know. He knows I'm going there. I don't know. We let him know—he knows that I'm going there. I would like to. I get along with him very well.

NOTE: The President spoke at 10:42 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White House prior to boarding Marine One. In his remarks, he referred to Virginia Republican gubernatorial candidate Lt. Gov. Winsome Earle-Sears, Democratic gubernatorial candidate former Rep. Abigail D. Spanberger, Democratic attorney general candidate Jerrauld C.C. "Jay" Jones, and Republican attorney general candidate Christopher T. Gilbert and his sons Jack and Grant and wife Jennifer Wishon Gilbert; New Jersey Republican gubernatorial candidate Jack Ciattarelli and Democratic gubernatorial candidate Rebecca M. "Mikie" Sherrill; and Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and Ambassador to the U.S. Kevin M. Rudd of Australia. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on October 25.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to Departure for Ramstein-Miesenbach, Germany Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/385156
