Russia/Ukraine

I do. I do. I think he is. I think they both are.

Got to make a deal. Got to get it done. Too many people dying. And I think both Presidents want to make a deal. We believe that.

I'd better brief you on my call. [Inaudible]

We settled eight wars, and this is the most difficult one. I thought it would be in the middle of the pack. This is the most difficult one. But we're going to get it done. We're going to have a great meeting today. This gentleman has worked very hard. He's very brave, and his people are very brave. I mean, what they've gone through, no nation—very rarely has a nation ever had to go through this.

So we're going to have a very good meeting today, I think. And I'm also calling President Putin back after the meeting, and we'll continue a negotiation. Pretty complex, but not that complex.

U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

I don't have deadlines. I have—you know what my deadline is? Getting the war ended. We don't have deadlines. You agree with that?

But the European nations have been really great. They're very much in line with this meeting, and we're getting a deal done. They are all—they're terrific people. I think you can say that. There's no—nobody bad. They all want to get it done, and they've been very supportive, I think.

President, do you have anything to say?

So, and I agree with President that the Europeans—[inaudible]. The President is—[inaudible]—with them. Maybe we'll have contact with them.

We could call them today. I think we should call them.

But I think—now, he hasn't told me that—but there have been some explosions in various parts of Russia, and it looks to me like, I don't know, I don't think it came from the Congo. I don't think it came from the United States of America. It possibly came from Ukraine. But I haven't asked that question. Maybe I won't bother asking.

No, they have—they're fighting a war, and we'll see what happens. But I believe it's a war that we have two willing parties, we have two willing countries—they want to see it end. Look, the people of Ukraine want it to end, and the people of Russia want it to end, and the two leaders want it to end.

Ukraine/Russia

None of that that has been determined. But it will go—it's going to go very quickly. I think we're very—we're in final stages of talking, and we're going to see. Otherwise, it's going to go on for a long time. It will either end or it's going to go on for a long time, and millions of additional people are going to be killed. Millions. And nobody wants that.

What?

U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

I just think we can do—I think we can move very rapidly. I really feel that.

We've spoken. I know you had dinner with Steve. Steve Witkoff and Jared have done a fantastic job, and everybody has. Marco has been incredible. The whole group has been—our group has been incredible.

And Ukraine appreciates it, and Russia appreciates it. They both want to see it end, and we're going to get it ended.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

Thank you very much.
