Hello, everybody.

So we're going to Andrews Air Force Base to do some work, especially for our great Air Force. We're doing some fix-up of the base, which it needs. We're going to try and reinstitute the golf courses. I'm meeting with the great Jack Nicklaus, the greatest person. And he's involved in trying to bring their recreational facility back.

It was a great place that has been destroyed over the years through lack of maintenance, so we'll fix that up. Jack will be the architect, and he'll design it. Two existing courses that are in very bad shape. So we can, for very little money, fix it up for the Air Force base. And we're looking at other things over at Andrews.

So we're going to be stopping—it won't be too long—we'll be stopping over there. I think some of you will be there.

And the economy, as you saw, some incredible numbers came in. Investment in our country is bigger than ever before by a factor of two or three. And that means a lot of things are being built, and a lot of plants will be opening very soon.

Sure. Why not. I mean, I get along with everybody.

Ukraine/Russia

No, not my——

No, we'd like to get the peace. It should have been—it should have happened a long time ago.

The Ukraine war with Russia should have never happened. If I were President, it never would have happened.

We're trying to get it ended. One way or the other, we have to get it ended. So we're working on it.

Well, then he can continue—then he can continue to fight his little heart out.

Former President Jair Messias Bolsonaro of Brazil

Say it?

So I spoke last night to the gentleman you just referred to, and we're going to be meeting, I believe, in the very near future.

What?

No, I don't know anything about it. I haven't heard about it.

I didn't hear—is that what happened?

That's too bad. That's too bad.

That's too bad. No, I just think it's too bad.

New York City/National Guard

If they need it. Right now other places need it more. But if they need—we had a very good meeting yesterday. We talked about that. But if they need it, I would do it.

Okay. Thank you very much.
