Well, I'd like to thank you very much. And I want to thank all of your people, many of whom I know.

And we've been dealing—they're very tough negotiators, and that's the way it should be. And I will say that we're working together. There's a great love between our communities, between our people, between leadership, and we're all friends.

I know you showed me a picture from a long time ago of you and I, and you're looking better now than you did then. That was quite a while ago. So you're doing something well. [Laughter]

But I will say this, that the Korean Peninsula—and I know you are officially at war, but we will see what we can do to get that all straightened out.

We're—we've been very lucky. I've been very fortunate to be able to solve a lot of problems in the world. I didn't even know there were so many problems. There were countries that nobody knew that they were even fighting, and yet they were killing millions and millions of people. And we got them—with the exception of one, which we'll—I think we're going to get straightened out—Russia-Ukraine.

But we got them all done, all finished. And you know that I'll be working on this very hard with you, with your team, with a lot of other people—see if we can do something that makes sense. I know Kim Jong Un very well. We get along very well. We really weren't able to work out timing.

We have—President Xi is coming tomorrow, and it was—that was something that obviously is very important to the world—to all of us. You'll be watching very carefully. We're meeting right here. And we're all looking forward to that. I think it's going to work out very, very well for everybody. And we—I look forward to seeing him. And that was our focus, really, for this visit.

But we'll have other visits and we'll work very hard with Kim Jong Un and with everybody on getting things straightened out, because that makes sense.

You know, I have a couple of phrases that I like. One of them is "common sense." It's common sense that that should work out. And I feel certain that it will. It may take a little time that—you have to have a little patience, but I feel absolutely certain that it will.

In the meantime, what you've done is amazing. What you've—first of all, the welcome and the beautiful honor you've bestowed on me as the only American President, that's—that's really a great tribute to our country—not to me, it's a great tribute to our country. But I had it focused toward you, as opposed to against you, which some people did.

What you've done, what you've created—what you've done in really a very short period of time, relatively speaking, is amazing. It's really amazing.

And you're working with us now on shipbuilding, because you become a master of shipbuilding. You know, during World War II, we were the biggest. We were number one by far, the United States. And then, through a series of very bad decisions or lack of caring, we really didn't make ships very much anymore. We made other things very well, but we didn't make ships.

Well, making ships is a necessity, and I know we're working in the Philadelphia yards and in various other places in the United States, where you're coming. We're going to make ships together in the United States, and we're going to start up shipbuilding. And we'll be right at the top or at least toward the top in a pretty short period of time.

But we have a lot of industries that are together. And we have a lot of industries where we're leading. We're leading in AI now. We're leading in a lot of the different things. We have many car companies coming back, as you know, to the United States.

Yesterday I was in Japan, and Toyota is investing $10 billion on building car plants—numerous car plants throughout the country with American workers—largely American workers. And we have many, many of them opening. So we have a lot of industry coming back.

We're going to be having—I think, by the end of my first term, we should have $21- or $2-—$22 trillion dollars invested in the United States from other people and countries. And that's a record. That's not even close. I think the record could be just about a fifth, one-fifth of that.

And the previous administration had less than $1 trillion in 4 years, and we're going to have maybe $21 trillion—could be even higher than that—in 1 year. So nobody's ever seen anything like—no country has ever seen anything like that.

But I just want to let you know, it's a special bond that we've had. We've had it for a long time, but you've never had it as strong as you've had it with me. And it's a tremendous honor.

I will tell you, driving up in the Beast—that's called "the Beast"—driving up in the Beast—the limo—with those very powerful people carrying very vicious-looking weapons, it was something. That was some spectacle and some beautiful scene. And I know what goes to making that happen.

But it was so perfect, so flawlessly done. And all of us—I can speak for my entire Cabinet and all the people with me, I don't think we've ever seen anything like that.

So I just want to thank you for that. That was a very special welcome, and it will be remembered.

And, Marco, I think you're working extremely well with the defensive side—defense and offense, okay? We have both defense and offense, and they're equally as good. In fact, our defense is very important from the standpoint of helping other countries. But we're going to take care of—we're going to work with you, and we're going to take care of the one—it's really a lingering cloud. I would call it a "lingering cloud" that's over your head. We're going to see if we can get that straightened out.

And I just want to thank you again for the welcome. And I wanted to say: We've been friends for a long time, and you are going to be a great President—you already are. And if we can do this together, then you'll go down as the greatest of them all. And we'll try and make that happen.

Thank you very much. Great honor.
