Well, thank you very much. It's an honor to have a friend of mine here, Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister of Hungary. And he's done a fantastic job. He's a very powerful man within his country, but he's also beloved. They love Viktor, and people that know him do. He's run a really great country.

And he's got no crime, he's got no problems, like some countries do, but probably has a couple of things that I don't know about, maybe that I don't want to know about. But he's a very special person. I've known him for a long time.

We're going to be talking trade. We're going to be talking a little bit of Russia-Ukraine. We'll be talking about energy and energy prices. We have energy down to a pretty low point right now in the United States. We're drilling. "Drill, baby, drill," we call it. But energy costs are very low. Our general costs are very low.

And I just saw that Walmart came out with a statement last night—they've done it for many years—that Thanksgiving this year will cost 25-percent less than Thanksgiving last year under Sleepy Joe Biden. So that's a big difference. That's a big difference. Twenty-five percent less Thanksgiving. And I think that's a very good chart. They include everything—everything that you need for Thanksgiving. So it's 25-percent less this year than it was last year. And that's true—that's emblematic of the rest of prices.

Energy prices are way down from what they were last year. Inflation is almost nonexistent. We have inflation down to a very low number, whereas Biden, as you know, is the worst inflation in the history of our country. So we're doing very well.

We have a shutdown, as you probably know, because the Democrats have gone—they're crazy. They're crazy. But they don't care if they hurt the country. But we've approved it 14 times. We've approved a opening up 14 times, and they keep rejecting it. And I guess maybe they will again. Let's see what happens.

They want to have—a lot of bad things happened—bad things for our country. We're not going to give $1.5 trillion to people that came into our country illegally—we're not going to do it; to people—came from prisons, they came from mental institutions, they're drug dealers. And they want to give them medical care, and we're not going to do that—$1.5 trillion. And we're not going to do other things that they're requesting also.

So I just want to welcome this really good person. I know him very well. He's a good person. And he's a great leader, and he's loved in his country.

And, Viktor, would you like to say a few words?

In the last 10 months, President, what you have done, we are very much grateful for that. You restored the old level of the relationship. You improved the bilateral relation. You repaired what was done badly by the previous administration. So now we are in a quite good position to open up a new chapter, let's say a golden age between United States—-

Good.

Sure.

Any questions, please?

Go ahead.

Hungary/Russian Oil and Gas Supply

And may I ask Mr. Orbán a question in regards to that very issue?

Sure. We're looking at it, because it's very difficult for him to get the oil and gas from other areas. As you know, they don't have—they don't have the advantage of having sea. It's a great country—it's a big country—but they don't have sea. They don't have the ports, and so they have a difficult problem. There's another country that has that same problem, by the way.

But when you look at what's happened with Europe, many of those countries, they don't have those problems, and they buy a lot of oil and gas from Russia. And, as they know, I'm very disturbed by that, because we're helping them and they're going and buying oil and gas from Russia.

So that question could be really asked, maybe more accurately, if you talked about many European countries—not Hungary necessarily, because Hungary is in a different position. But many European countries are buying oil and gas from Russia, and they have been for years. And I say, "What's that all about?" Right?

Thank you. Yes, go ahead.

Hungarian Politics/Migration Issues in Europe

Are you from Hungary?

I figured. [Laughter]

The fact is that he's a great leader, and he's respected all over. Not necessarily liked by some of the leaders, but you know, those leaders have proven to be wrong. If you look at his stance on immigration and other things—you know, if you look at Europe, they've made tremendous mistakes on immigration. It's really hurting them very badly. He has not made a mistake on immigration.

So he's respected by everybody. He's liked by some. And I can tell you, I like and respect—I'm a double—I like and respect him. And that's the way Hungary is being led. They're being led properly, and that's why he's going to be very successful in his upcoming election. Okay?

So we are kind of a special island of difference in a liberal ocean in Europe, and we consider ourselves as a modern, Christian government. That's the proper category to describe what we are doing.

Viktor, do you want to talk about that?

Yes. Go ahead, please.

Hungary/European Union/North Atlantic Treaty Organization

Well, I think they should respect Hungary and respect this leader very, very strongly, because he's been right on immigration. Look what's happened to Europe with the immigration. They have people flooding Europe all over the place, and it's hurting it. It's—the crime rates are way up. A lot of bad things are happening.

He—his crime rates are very low. They're the same as they always were, which is very little crime, because he's kept it the way it should be.

Europe—I mean, I don't want to go into individual countries. They're all friends of mine, every one. As you know, in the—in NATO, they voted to go from 2 percent to 5 percent. And, you know, that—nobody thought that was possible. And we had just about—almost, other than Spain—a unanimous vote.

No, I think that—I think they respect him a lot. They don't agree with him, but actually, inwardly, I think they probably do agree. What he—he was right on immigration. They were wrong. They are flooding Europe with people from all over the world, and Europe is becoming a different place.

And I tell the leaders all the time, "You'd better stop, or you're not going to have Europe anymore." It's a very dangerous thing they're doing.

European Union/North Atlantic Treaty Organization/Migration Issues

Yes, where are you from?

Okay. I do have that conversation with them, and I respect and like them. You know, they're all friends of mine. I think pretty much every single leader in Europe is a friend of mine. We get along really well. They've done everything I've asked them to do with NATO, et cetera. The only thing they continue to do is buy oil from Russia. That's not too good.

But I told them they should respect this man. They can also learn from Viktor. Viktor has had a very hard stance on, more than anything else, immigration or even illegal immigration. He literally has accepted no one over the years.

Think of how much greater these countries would be if they didn't have the tremendous crime that has come in with the immigration. People just flowing into Europe—they've got to stop it. And not only stop it, they have to reverse it. They have to get them out.

We've done that here. We have zero people coming in now. The borders are closed. We take people, but we take them legally. But we've done it very strongly, and we're—we're moving hundreds of thousands, millions of people out.

We had—of the 20 million people, 25 million—nobody knows even what the number is. They never knew. Biden had no idea. He wasn't—he had no idea. I don't believe he had any idea what was happening, because he wasn't about open borders. But we had open borders, and we had millions of people come in, and they were coming in from jails. They were coming in from mental institutions. They were coming in as drug dealers. We had 11,888 murderers; half of them committed more than one murder. We're getting them all out. We're getting them out.

He doesn't have that problem, but Europe does have that problem. Other parts of Europe have that problem.

So, you know, I tell them all the time. We—I'm—I stick up for Viktor Orbán. Not a lot of people do, because they're—in many cases, they're jealous. They wish they did what he did. They would have no problems if they did what he did.

And I have a bigger heart than anybody. But, you know, they've destroyed some of those countries. Some of those countries had no crime 10 years ago, and now they have quite a bit of crime. And I would say that—I don't know anything about your crime levels, but I would imagine they're very low.

And, Pete, you may want to suggest something right there, please.

U.S. Secretary of War Peter B. Hegseth. Absolutely, no. Nothing was uncoordinated with the White House. It's all part of the view that we have of Europe. And there will remain troops in Romania, but there's some change in how we rotate and how many we rotate.

And the relationship with Romania is very good, right?

We just signed the biggest trade deal ever made with Europe: $950 billion. We were able to do it because of tariffs. It was a deal that was good—very good. But we had a very unfair deal. We were treated very badly before I came into office. But we just signed—it's the single biggest trade deal ever signed. So we have a very good relationship with Europe.

Yes.

Russia/Ukraine

The basic dispute is, they just don't want to stop yet. And I think they will. I think that's—it's taken a big toll on Russia. Big toll on both countries, obviously—but it's taken a big toll. They're losing 7,000 soldiers a week. That's a big toll. And between the two of them—divided—you know, with Russia losing more soldiers, actually. But they're both losing a lot of people.

And that's the primary thing that—with me. It's not economic. It's not money. In fact, we don't spend any money. We send it to NATO. They pay us for our missiles and for our military and everything else.

We don't—it's not a question of money. It was with Biden. He spent $350 billion and got nothing for it.

The war would have never happened. If I were President, the war would have never happened. I think you would agree with that. This war would never have happened if I were President. It's stupid that it happened. But it did happen. I inherited the war, and I think we're going to get it ended—not-too-distant future.

So the reason why I'm here: to be as much as helpful I can to contribute to the peace efforts of the president. Because that was an enormous mistake, what we have done—I mean, the Western world—several years ago, and we have to stop it, and—[inaudible].

Biden actually pushed for that war to happen. Okay? If you can believe it. Nobody can believe it, but it's one of those things. And now look what happened. Look what's happened to Ukraine. It's a much smaller country. Lot of people are dead.

You take a look at what—it's a whole different world over there. And Russia has not been helped very much by that war, either. They lost a tremendous number of soldiers and people. And you know, look, that war should have been a 1-week war. I don't know why it's taken—this is 4 years. Should have been one week. It should have been over with. But it would have never started—should have never started.

And I would have solved the problem without giving up anything. Ukraine would have remained as is. So there were tremendous mistakes long before I got there. I inherited that mess. And we're getting it solved, along with the eight wars that we've already ended.

European Union/Hungary

I think I can do both. I mean, there's no reason why I can't. I get along well with the European nations.

But I get along great with him, and I get along very well with them. I agree with him on immigration much more than I agree with them. But I agree with, you know, a lot of the things in Europe he also agrees with. But he had a difference, I would say, primarily, on immigration, more than anything else. And I happen to think he was right, because their whole fabric has changed. I mean, you go to some of the countries, they're unrecognizable now because of what they've done. And Hungary is very recognizable.

Yes, ma'am.

Hungary/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts With Respect to Russia

You mean a meeting with President Putin?

You mean in—and in Hungary—well, I'd like to keep it in Hungary—in Budapest. That meeting—it turned out I didn't want to do that meeting because I didn't think anything was going to be happening, of significance.

But if we have it, I'd like to do it in Budapest, yes. It'd be good.

Hungarian Politics/Hungary-U.S. Trade

Well, I don't know his opponent. I don't know if he has an opponent yet. At some point, he will, I guess.

I mean, Hungary, as an example, had no relationship with the United States, even though we do, you know, billions of dollars in trade with Hungary.

This country was poorly run. I think if I didn't win the election, we might not have a country, if you want to know the truth—not a recognizable country. But our relationship was immediately good as soon as I won the election, because Viktor is one of the people that's highly respected. And we had a great relationship with Hungary, and we do again.

That was an easy one.

Yes, please.

Ukraine/Russia

I think we agree that the war is going to end. Sometimes people have to fight it out a little bit longer, but I think we agree that the war is going to end in the not-too-distant future.

Do you want to talk about that, Viktor?

Well, I haven't heard that. You're telling me——

Who are you with? Who are you with?

Fake news. NBC—[laughter]——

You're fake news.

What a——

What a—NBC has gone down the tubes——

——along with most of the rest of them.

Well, they feel better about our country right now—other than the shutdown, obviously, which is caused by the Democrats. Could be ended by the Democrats in two minutes.

They feel much better. We have more jobs. We just set a record on jobs. You do know that? We have more investment in our country than any country in history. We're over $18 trillion as of this moment, and we're going to be maybe at $20- or $21 trillion by the time I finish up my first year.

And there's been no country—China, no country in the world—that's done anywhere even close to that number. Your friend Biden, as an example, in 4 years, was less than a trillion. We'll be at $21 trillion in one year. So there's no country that was even close to that, and our country was a laughingstock all over the world.

We have more jobs, we have more potential than any other country. And, frankly, we're the hottest country right now. Viktor said to me before: We're the hottest country anywhere in the world. Think of it. We'll have $20-, $21 trillion invested. We have auto plants pouring back in. We have AI pouring back in. We're leading China in AI by a lot. We are leading everybody in every category. There's no category that we're in second place.

So I just heard this yesterday, that Walmart said that the Thanksgiving was 25 more expensive—25-percent more expensive under Biden. That's a big—to me, that's a big number, because Walmart is respected. I mean, Walmart is Walmart. And you know, they're giving you prices. So that would mean that the whole series of pricing and costs—you know, the groceries and everything else—it was a con job. It was a con job. "Affordability," they call it, was a con job by the Democrats.

The Democrats are good at a few things: cheating on elections and conning people with facts that aren't true.

It was 25 percent—Walmart just announced it 2 days ago—25-percent cheaper—this year will be cheaper to have Thanksgiving than it was a year ago under Sleepy Joe Biden.

Consumer Prices/Gasoline Costs/Off-Year Elections

Yes. What?

Say it?

Yes.

I talked about it. When did I not want to talk about it? I talk about it all the time.

We are much better than Biden and all of them. Now, just so you understand, do you remember that the Biden administration had the highest inflation in 48 years—but most people say ever recorded? Do you remember that? Right? Do you remember it?

Did they have the highest inflation in 48 years? Did they?

Just answer me the question. You know the answer.

The answer is yes. [Laughter]

They had the worst inflation in 48 years.

We have almost no inflation. We're down now to 2 percent, and we'll be at maybe 1 percent. You want to always stay above 1 percent, actually. You want a little, tiny bit of inflation. We're at a perfect number.

They were at the highest level in recorded history. Okay? And when you talk about affordability, that one fact—now, let's talk about the second biggest subject, after inflation: energy. We're going to be a $2 gasoline. We're going to be approximately $2 very soon. We're a little bit above $2 right now for gasoline.

Now, under Biden, it was four and a half—it even hit five, but it was $4 dollars, $3½. We're going to be at $2 a gallon. So gasoline is much less.

Energy costs are less. When you have energy and when you have gasoline less, everything else follows. It's such a big category. So, when you have lower energy prices—which I think you admit we do, substantially—that means everything else. So we are the victors on affordability.

But if I watched that election, which I was not much involved in—I didn't support Virginia, the candidate. Didn't do a lot of support for the other candidates. They asked me about Cuomo, and I said, "Well, it's a question: Do you want a thug or do you want a Communist?" I mean, that was my response. [Laughter] So I wasn't involved in that stuff too much.

But I will say this. If you look at affordability, which they campaigned on, they lied, because they talked about—"Oh, prices are up." No, no. Prices are down under the Trump administration, and they're down substantially. Energy prices are down by 30, 35, 40 percent. Gasoline is way down.

And the other big thing is, we started—inflation is way down. The big—the biggest thing is inflation. The second biggest thing is energy. Energy is way down. And what's also down? Gasoline. Also, the biggest thing is inflation, and it's way down.

We took over a mess: the highest inflation in recorded history—some people would say 48 years. I'll take either one of them. But I believe it's the highest inflation in recorded history. That alone makes it impossible for them to have done a good job, affordability-wise.

And one other thing. When I came into office, Viktor, 2 days into office, they were screaming at me about the cost of eggs. I was there for two days. Eggs had quadrupled. And I said, "Listen, I just did—I just got here. Let me check it out." And they were right. Eggs had gone up by three, four times. Within a period of a few months, we had eggs down to a normal cost.

We did a great job on groceries and affordability. The only problem is the fake news. You people don't want to report it.

And, in fact, I'd like to ask Karoline—where's Karoline? I'd like to ask Karoline a question. Where is she? Did she—uh oh. She deserted us. [Laughter] She deserted me. [Laughter]

Our great Karoline—superstar—deserted me. Anyway. She's right outside.

She was going to talk about it, because the fake news, yesterday they talked about that. They said, "Oh, I don't want to talk about affordability." The reason I don't want to talk about affordability is because everybody knows that it's far less expensive under Trump than it was under Sleepy Joe Biden——

Karoline.

White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt. Yes, sir.

Could you discuss that—that question that was asked and how—how it was asked in such a fake, disgusting manner by the fake news?

Press Secretary Leavitt. Yes, and I just saw it asked again here. And it's very unfortunate that the reporters in this room refuse to address, sir, what you just said, which is that you inherited the worst inflation crisis in modern American history, and you are fixing it in 10 short months.

And your entire administration has been tasked with this effort, from Treasury Department to Agriculture Department to the National Economic Council, right here at the White House. They are slashing regulation.

He signed the largest middle-class tax cut in 6 months—in 6 months—in record time, putting more money back into the American people's pockets.

So affordability is what the American people elected this President to do, and he is doing it, and you guys refuse to cover it. And you refuse to cover that the previous administration created the worst unaffordability crisis in American history.

And I've been watching the TV all day saying that "he doesn't want to talk about affordability." That's what he's working on every day, and that's what this administration——

That's what I'm talking about right now.

Press Secretary Leavitt. ——is doing.

But you know why they refuse to cover it?

Go ahead.

Karoline, the Prime Minister would like you to work for him in Hungary.

Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations/Senate Use of the Filibuster

Yes, please.

That's too bad. They're making a big mistake. That's right.

No, but they're—they're coming my way.

You're right. Wait a minute. Wait a minute.

The way to do it for the Republicans is to terminate the filibuster. They call it the nuclear option. This is the second form of nuclear—very good, very good. This is a good form. This is not a bad form.

I would have been in favor of that a long time ago, but you know the Democrats are going to do that. And most of you will admit, the Democrats are going to do that. So why aren't we doing it? And I think only a foolish person would be against that, especially when you realize that these are crazed people. These people are absolutely crazed—Trump derangement syndrome, whatever it may be.

And I am totally in favor of terminating the filibuster, and we would be back to work within 10 minutes after that vote took place, and lots of other good things would happen. And it—it's—it doesn't make any sense that a Republican would not want to do that.

——with Democrats to end the shutdown. Are you open to that?

Here's some of the things that we'd pass—

——if we terminated the filibuster: voter ID, no mail-in voting, no cash bail, no men in women's sports, no welfare for illegals. You could go on and on. This is two pages of things we'd do if you did that. Without it, I don't know that you'd pass anything, because you can't deal with them. They're really irrational. They really are.

But I was happy to see that a tremendous liability to this country—a woman that made herself rich in this country, Nancy Pelosi—has quit, and she'll be out of here pretty soon. And that—I consider that to be a great asset for America——

——getting her out.

Yea, please. Go ahead.

I don't know. We'll see what they have. I mean, we'll see.

But they're very destructive for the country.

NBC fake news, I'm not taking you. Go ahead.

Senate Use of the Filibuster

Well, you know, normally I would say, "Well, a little bit." But the reason that I'm not is because if they ever took over power, they'll do it in——

Look, Joe Manchin and Sinema are two people that are no longer in politics because of this issue. They were opposed to what the Democrats wanted to do. They wanted to terminate the filibuster. They were opposed to it. They're no longer in politics. They're gone.

The Democrats will do this. So, if the Democrats are going to do it, I'm saying Republicans should do it before they get a chance. It's very simple. And if we do it, we will never lose the midterms, and we will never lose a general election, because we will have produced so many different things for our people—for the people, for the country—that it would be impossible to lose an election.

Artificial Intelligence

No, I love AI. I think it's going to be very helpful. So many things are happening with it. And in addition to which, we're leading China, we're leading the world in AI. We're building massive electric plants that the companies themselves are building for their plant. I've given them the right, because we need so much electricity for that. And just—the word is "electricity," believe it or not. Double the electricity that we currently have in the country for just the AI plants.

And I've allowed those companies to rebuild and build electric plants along with their facility. We're getting approvals done in less than a month, sometimes in 2 weeks, for massive—beautiful, massive buildings.

And no, I'm totally in favor of it. I think it's really going to be the wave of the future. And we're leading the world. We're leading everybody by a lot.

Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations

I don't know. It's up to the Democrats.

We voted—the Republicans have voted 14 times to open up the country, and the Democrats have voted 14 times to hurt the country, really. They should approve it, but they might not.

That's why I like the—that's why I like the fact that we terminate the filibuster. If we terminate the filibuster, the country will be open within 10 minutes after that termination, because we'll take a second vote, which is the vote—opening of the country, and the Republicans will vote to open the country.

That's one of the reasons—not the major reason, by the way. I think it's less important than the other things that we get. But if we terminate the filibuster, the second vote that we will take will be to open up the country. It'll take 10 minutes, and the country will be open.

Senate Use of the Filibuster

Well, it didn't work, obviously.

You're right. That was——

That was the purpose of the filibuster: bipartisanship. But that didn't work.

Well, no, if there's—if there's—if the filibuster is terminated, we will have the most productive 3 years in the history of our country. If the filibuster is not terminated, then we will be in a slog with the Democrats and very little for either party will be done. So, it's a good thing.

Thank——

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.
