Well, thank you very much.

U.S. Seizure of an Oil Tanker Off the Coast of Venezuela

This has been a—an interesting day from the standpoint of news. As you probably know, we've just seized a tanker on the coast of Venezuela—a large tanker, very large. Largest one ever seized, actually. And other things are happening, so you'll be seeing that later and you'll be talking about that later with some other people.

Special Immigration Program

Very excitingly for me and for the country, we've just launched the Trump gold card. It was—about 30 minutes from now, the site goes up. And all funds go to the United States government. It could be a tremendous amount of money. It will also be able to have people like this keep—as an example—just one example—there are a lot of examples, people just buying them. It's somewhat like a green card but with big advantages over a green card.

And companies are going to be able to go to the Wharton School of Finance, the Stern Business School, Harvard, MIT, wherever you may get your students—any school—and you're able to buy a card and keep that person in the United States, actually. So you're—there's certainty, because a lot of—I've heard from Tim Cook of Apple, and I've heard from a lot of people, some of the people at this table, that, essentially, in the United States, you can't keep the student. You can't hire people from the best colleges because you don't know whether or not you can keep the person.

They come—have the people get out—they throw the person out of the country. You graduate number one from your college, and there's no way of guaranteeing, I guess you could say—there's no way of guaranteeing that they're able to stay in the country.

And, Howard, maybe you'll give a little description of the Trump gold card, please.

And it's really two gifts. It's a gift of getting somebody great coming into our country, because we think these will be some tremendous people that wouldn't be allowed to stay. You know, they graduate from college, they have to go back to India, they have to go back to China, they have to go back to France. They have to go back to where they— -ever they came from. Very hard to stay. It's a shame. It's a ridiculous thing.

So we're taking care of that. The companies are going to be very happy. I know Apple is going to be happy, but a lot of the companies. Nobody talked to me more about it than Tim Cook. He says it's a real problem, and it's not going to be a problem anymore.

As you know, they used to send people up to Canada and other places, other countries. So, we've solved that.

And the other thing is, it will take in, we think, probably billions of dollars that will go to the Treasury of the United States. It will go to an account where we can do things positive for the country. So it will be a great thing.

We'll take in, I think, you know, billions of dollars—many billions of dollars, even. So, that's very exciting.

Children's Savings Account Program

The Trump accounts are doing really well. We have a man on my right, Michael Dell, who's an extraordinary person. His wife is even more extraordinary. I think I can say that. They have such a good relationship. You know, Mike?

Dell Technologies Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael S. Dell. Yes. It's true.

She's an extraordinary person, right?

But they're two great people. And, as you know, last week, Michael contributed $6 billion 250 million. And this is just something that's so special. So many people are in love with that. He understood it right from the beginning. It was his idea, and he understood it right from the beginning.

Could you give maybe just a little description of why you loved it for such a long period of time? And we were able to get it through the "Great Big Beautiful Bill," basically. That's how—what gave us the authorization to do it.

Michael, please.

And to think that Michael started off with not a lot of money, I would say, right? Not too much. Like, very little. And he can give a gift of $6 billion 250 million. And I know he said he's going to do a lot more. It's pretty amazing. It's really a beautiful thing to watch. So great for our country.

So we have the Trump accounts are doing really well, and it's become—I have to tell you, just everyone is talking about them, you know, beyond what I would have even thought.

And it's going to make some young people relatively very wealthy. And, in some cases, I mean, they could really be off to a great start. So some people have had that advantage, and some people haven't. But it's a wonderful thing.

Thank you to you and your beautiful wife. Thank you very much.

We also are grateful to be joined by Enrique Lores of HP. So thank you very much, Enrique.

HP Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer Enrique Lores. Thank you.

Great job you're doing.

Antonio Neri of HP Enterprise. Thank you very much.

Hewlett Packard Enterprise President and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Neri. Thank you, Mr. President.

What's the difference between HP and HP Enterprise?

Arvind Krishna of IBM, who has actually become, I would say, a legend—the job he's done. He's taken the stock from a rather low price to a very nice price. I won't say high, because I'm sure you're going to say it's going to go up a lot more, right? [Laughter]

IBM Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Arvind Krishna. Mm-hmm.

So I can't say a high price, but he took IBM into a new stratosphere that nobody, I think, saw. If you go back to before when he took over the company, you would have—nobody would have even imagined that you'd be able to do what you've done. So congratulations—and he's become a——

Cristiano Amon of Qualcomm, and thank you very much.

Qualcomm Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer Cristiano Amon. Thank you.

Congratulations on the success.

And Executive Director of the Technology CEO Council, Bruce Mehlman. So thank you very much.

I think that these people know each other. We're going to be talking a little bit about technology today, and we'll take a few of your questions about technology. I'm sure you probably won't have too many of those questions. You'll be asking about some other things. Right, Bruce?

Our administration is committed to total dominance in technology. Right now we're leading artificial intelligence by a lot, and they—you know, you look at what's going up, and we're writing rules, regulations. We want to keep it at the Federal Government level, so it's simple for the companies. Very important, frankly.

And I think we're pretty well committed. I spoke to some of the senators today, and I think we're committed to doing that. We want to make it as simple as possible, as easy, because you're competing with some very big sources, and we want to stay number one by a lot.

We're leading the world in building new data centers and new semiconductor and chip manufacturing facilities and new capacity for AI, and we're unleashing all of the forms—literally, all forms of energy and natural gas and oil—to clean, beautiful coal and safe, reliable nuclear power. And I'm giving them approval to, when they build these massive plants that cost $50 billion—you know, it used to be that for $50 million you could build a nice little shopping center, but for $500 million you could build one of the biggest, most beautiful centers. And now they're talking about $50 billion. So explain that one. These buildings are—nobody—there's never been anything—there's never been anything like that.

So you're all involved in that. It's pretty amazing.

One year ago, our country was considered dead by many leaders throughout the world, and now we have what's called the hottest country anywhere in the world. We're the hottest country in the world right now. Ten months, it took us. I thought it was going to take longer, Michael. I really—[laughter]—I didn't think we were going to have this success this soon.

We have over $18 trillion being invested, much of it by—like, you're in for a lot. What's the number that you're looking at?

Antonio, what about you guys? What about you and Enrique? How's that going?

And, Bruce, let me ask you—you pull these people all together—how's it looking for technology?

Technology CEO Council Executive Director Bruce Mehlman. A lot of global competition, but you'd rather be playing our hand than any other hand in the world.

I think so. We have a good hand right now, don't we?

Joe Biden secured just—really, much less than a trillion dollars of new investments in 4 years, and in 10 months, we secured more than $18 trillion. So 18 times the amount in 10 months what they did in 4 years. And they would have gone negative. They were going to—they were heading toward negative. In other words, not a trillion dollars, but it could have been $3- or $4- or $5 trillion less, because people were leaving. So it was a big turnaround.

In 10 months, the $18 trillion—it's a record. There's never been a country that's gotten anywhere near that.

In the Middle East—when I left the Middle East, we brought back $3 trillion and lots of Boeing airplanes—like 300. And Boeing gave me the award for the greatest salesman in the history of Boeing—[laughter]—which was a nice little award. I have a little plaque. The greatest—I think I've sold a thousand Boeing planes. Can you believe it? Now all they have to do is make them. Okay? They've got to make them, but they will.

But we have made historic trade deals with the United Kingdom, China, Indonesia, Vietnam, Japan, the EU, Malaysia, Cambodia, El Salvador, Argentina, Ecuador, Guatemala, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Thailand, and South Korea, and many others.

And a lot of it's based on the November 5 election result, which was a massive victory. Won all seven swing States, the popular vote. We won the Electoral College by a landslide. We won counties. The counties, they do it. I don't know, to me, it's the most accurate of all, in many ways. We're at 2,700 counties against 525. That's pretty good—right, Cristiano?

Americans are great builders. And in the Trump administration, America is once again a country where innovators get a green light. You have the greatest innovators in the world at this table and representing a lot of their friends who are competitors and friends, but to—we're really on a big move to get rid of redtape so they can run their businesses and not have to wait 10 years for approval.

In the old days, getting some of these approvals that—for plants that are already being built would have taken 10, 15, even 20 years prior to rejection. You'd get rejected. You'd work 20 years, and then you'd lose five to four. And we're getting plants approved in a matter of weeks. The biggest plants ever built in a matter of weeks.

For every new regulation, we're slashing more than 10 old regulations. So we're not allowing regulations unless they slash 10 old regulations. We did that in the first term, and we cut more regulation than any administration ever.

In our first term, we have the alltime record. I think we're exceeding it here. In fact, now it's 1 in 24 is the number we're at. It's 1 in 10 you have to do. Otherwise, we're not letting you do it. But we're actually up to 1 in 24, so we get rid of 24 regulations for every one. That's not a bad deal, right? [Laughter]

And it's been very exciting, actually. But—including, we're allowing 100—in the "Great Big Beautiful Deal," we're allowing 100-percent expensing for capital expenditures, including investments in factories and equipment and structure. So including even structure. So that if Michael goes out and builds a factory, you can take it against tax immediately, the whole thing. You don't have to wait 38 years or do it over a 38-year period.

And I think that's what made the first tax cut, which we, by the way, got extended in this tax cut. So—and you add it up, it's the biggest tax cut in the history of our country.

But I think that the expensing factor is good for 10 years too. I think that's the—maybe was the reason that so much growth was—there were other reasons, but so much growth was gotten in the first term.

So, earlier this year, I said that the challenges of our time demand a new spirit of patriotism and national loyalty, and Silicon Valley—smart people—and from the whole technology sector—and that patriotism is on huge display here in this room with some of the most brilliant people.

And I'd now like to ask Secretary Howard Lutnick to say a few words, and OSTP Director Michael Kratsios also say a few words. And I look forward to hearing from Michael a little bit about this subject. Cristiano, Qualcomm. And, Arvind, you'll say something.

And I appreciate it. And if anybody else wants to say a couple of words, feel free.

Good job.

So why don't we start with Howard. Please.

You've done everything you can, and you've heard trillions and trillions of dollars of technology build coming home to America to protect and defend us and use our innovations here. You're driving interest rates lower, and you're going to continue to drive lower. That makes it cheaper. It makes it more exciting to build here.

You've blown out the regulatory deep state so that people can build here and do it fast.

And the last thing is that because of our investment in energy that drive down the cost of energy for all Americans, including the people who are building here, drive down the cost of energy, it's great for America.

Put all of that together, and you're going to see the greatest growth the United States of America has ever seen. You're going to see north of 4 percent next year, and then it's going to go up from there to fives and sixes. This President is going to drive the greatest GDP growth, led by the tech sector coming home and driving growth.

Well, thank you.

You know, one of the things I'd like to say just before going over to Michael—and this Michael and then we'll have this one, all right?—but one of the things I'd like to say is: In the old days, when you announced really good results in this country, the stock market went up. And that's who it should be. And we're going back to that. Because otherwise, you can never really attain true greatness. In other words, GDP at 4—"Oh, it's—4 is so high. Let's raise interest rates and kill it." And we're going to go back to the old days.

When we announced great results, it doesn't mean we're going to raise interest rates and try and kill it. It means that instead of 4 percent GDP or 3 percent—which I say, "It's so wonderful, 3 percent"—it should be able to be 20 or 25 percent. I don't know why it can't be. You shouldn't kill it. And so we hope that if this country announces great results—because you're going to see great results over the next couple of years.

All these plants. And I'm not just talking about AI. We have the biggest number of auto plants planned.

Toyota just announced $10 billion in plants built, various couple of locations—few locations in the country—just a little while ago.

They're all coming here. They're coming here because of tariffs, because they don't want to pay tariffs. But they're coming here because of the election and the mindset.

But when we announce good results, the market should go up. Now, it's when you announce good results, Michael, the market goes down because they say: "Oh, that means things are good. That means we're going to kill it by raising interest rates."

I think it's really wrong. It should be the opposite of what it is now. It should be the way it used to be. We announced good results. The market should go up, and we should keep driving it up and have it keep going up and let it be much, much bigger, much, much better.

And, you know, growth doesn't mean inflation. They're always afraid that, "Oh, if we have"—and if there is inflation, it's okay. Then we can slow it down. But we should be able to do a lot better than 3 and 4. We're scheduled to be at 4 percent, which is pretty amazing, because we have a, you know, deadhead Fed hair [Chair; White House correction]. I mean, this guy.

The head of the Federal Reserve is a stiff. And you know, you fight that. It's amazing. We fight that, and yet interest rates are going down. Except with him, not too much. He did a—he did a—rather—I would say a rather small number that could have been doubled—at least doubled.

And that's the other thing. I think the rates for the United States are always the lowest in the world. Because without us, there is no world. Without this economy, there's no world.

You know, you could go to some of these wonderful countries that you think are so great. Well, one of the reasons they're great is because we allowed them to get rich off of us. We didn't charge them anything.

You look at some of the deals. I don't want to say—I use Switzerland as an example, but Switzerland paid almost nothing in terms of a tariff or tax, or whatever you want to call it. License. They paid nothing. And you know, they're paying now. They're paying a fair amount. I had them at 39 percent, but I decided to be nice. I was nice, and I think they like us a little bit better.

But the money you're talking about is enormous. Our country is a very rich country. But if we do well, the market should go up, and the value of our country should go up. And if we do poorly, the market, then, should go down. It shouldn't be the opposite.

And if we go up, we should encourage it to go up more. And those numbers, when you say, you know, 3 percent of GDP or 4 percent of GDP, they should be much higher.

So, you know, I wanted to say it. I do say it. I believe it. And we have to get a mindset that when a country is doing well, you don't want to kill the growth. That's what they're doing. They kill the growth.

I don't know if you guys even agree with that. They kill the growth, because they're so afraid of inflation. But you can have tremendous growth without inflation. Everything goes up with the growth, but that's not inflation.

So I think we can do much better than traditional numbers. And you see that. You see that with what we're doing. We're leading in everything. And now—and remember this, as far as prices are concerned—and they talk about affordability. I inherited the worst inflation in the history of our country. They say it was 48 years, but I say it was the history—what difference?

It's 48 years, they were telling me, and they said I was being inaccurate because I said the history. I think 48 years is a long time, but it's—actually, I disagree. I think it's the history.

So, in the Biden administration, I inherited the worst inflation in the history of our country—or 48 years. And prices were very, very high. I brought the prices down.

We had, yesterday, three States where oil was at $1.99 a gallon. How about that? And, you know, with these guys, it was $4 dollars, $4½ dollars. In California, it was, like, $7, because that's a badly run State. But the price for oil and gas and everything else—the price of gasoline was $4½, $5. And we just hit $1, and we broke $2. I was looking forward to the couple of States—three States.

And I will say that when that happens—oil and gas and energy is so big—it's so big a category, you don't even know what number two is. There is no number two. And when you have the prices coming down for energy like that, you've killed inflation, and you're lowering prices.

So I inherited, very simply, the highest prices in history, and I'm bringing them down really fast, led by energy. And when energy comes down, everything else comes down.

But I've only been here a short while. We gave them a beautiful, beautiful thing, and they destroyed it. They would have destroyed our country had they been allowed to stay. If they—if we didn't win this election, if we had Kamala, who's the same as Joe—low-IQ people—but if we had Kamala, as you would have a country that would be right now in ruins. I believe that 100 percent. Things would be in a state like nobody has ever seen before. Worse than anything you've ever imagined. Worse than 1929, in my opinion.

Instead, we have the hottest country in the world, and we're going to keep it that way.

But just to finish, we inherited high prices. We're bringing them down very rapidly, and we're bringing them down to very, very good levels. They'll soon be down at very good levels.

Michael, please. Go ahead.

Office of Science and Technology Policy Director Michael J.K. Kratsios. Absolutely. As everyone in this room probably knows very well, leadership in science and technology has been foundational to our economic and national security for four decades. And because of the policies that you have championed and the private sector partnerships that you have made, America currently is leading the world in S&T and is benefiting all Americans every day.

The one thing that I want to remind this group of, and many of you know, you know, the President has been arguing for American leadership in AI well before ChatGPT was even invented. The President signed an Executive order on artificial intelligence leadership in 2019——

That's right.

Director Kratsios. ——which set the stage for the revolution that we're seeing today.

In the past year, we've built on that. We signed out the AI Action Plan in July of this year, which the President launched here in Washington, along with three EOs. And I know a lot of that effort is around creating a regulatory environment to allow for companies like yours to thrive and for the applications that you build to have the biggest impact on Americans every day.

So thank you for everything that you do, and I know we're going to keep working together and make sure that America is the home for the next great technological discoveries.

All right. Thank you, Michael.

And, Michael.

Cristiano, please.

I like the cameras the old days where they sort of just had a nice feature. Now, they cover every little——

Let's see, Michael. You're in good shape. You're not going to—[laughter].

But I'll tell you, it's—so, your—the six is coming, huh?

Go ahead, please.

Any questions, please?

U.S. Seizure of an Oil Tanker Off the Coast of Venezuela

Well, I'll let the people do it, but you see the result, and I guess they probably have released the pictures by now or pretty soon. You'll discuss that with the appropriate people later on. But no, it was seized for a very good reason.

Yes.

U.S. Visa Policy/Illegal Immigration/Public Safety in the District of Columbia

No.

We're doing so well. We just want people to come over here and safe. We want safety. We want security. We want to make sure we're not letting the wrong people come into our country.

We're getting rid of a lot of bad ones from jails, from mental institutions, drug dealers. We're getting a lot of—a lot of bad people. Murderers—11,888 murderers, half of them—almost exactly half of them committed more than one murder. We're getting rid of them. In some cases, we don't even want to get them out. We put them in jail because we're afraid they're going to come back into our country. We're not going to let them back in. So we've taken a very tough stand.

And you see where we've been, like Washington, DC. Now people walk down the streets, they go into restaurants at night. It's beautiful. It's like this beautiful thing to see, because until I got here, this was a very, very bad place.

We had a terrible thing happen 2 weeks ago with terrorism, with regard to two National Guardspeople that are so phenomenal. One is no longer with us, and one, amazingly—we weren't looking with great hope on that. You know that. Andrew. And today he got out of bed, actually. He got—stood up. Didn't say anything. It's a little early, but the chances of Andrew—other than his mother, who said, "Nope, he's going to be okay." His mother was the most positive person, and could be that she'll be right. It's pretty amazing. Made progress.

It was—both of them were so badly hurt, we never thought that one could survive. So it looks like Andrew is doing pretty well.

Nobel Prize for Peace/Venezuela

Well, arrested by who? The Nobel Prize committee, it sounds like. [Laughter] That's probably the ones that would arrest.

No, I don't know anything about it. She was very gracious. She said I should have gotten the Nobel Prize. And I don't—you know, I mean, I'm doing this to save lives. I'm not doing it for any other reason.

But no, I don't like if she would be arrested. No, I wouldn't be happy with that.

Health Insurance Reforms

Well, the "Unaffordable Care Act," which is Obamacare—they call it now the "unaffordable" because it's unaffordable. It used to be called the "affordable," but it was never affordable. It was always bad. It was basically designed for the benefit of insurance companies.

And what we're doing is we want all of the billions and billions of dollars that went to insurance companies to go directly to the people, and they can buy their own health care, and people love it.

I don't know if the Democrats are going to approve it, because they want the insurance companies to make money. It was a scam. Obamacare was a scam.

But we're going to see. I mean, we—the Republicans, I can tell you, want the money to go to the people, and we're winning that battle. The Democrats are having a hard time with it because they're in the pocket of the insurance companies.

Yes, please, Steve [Steve A. Holland, Reuters].

Ukraine/Russia

I did.

Right.

Yes. The leaders of France, we spoke to, and Germany and U.K. All very good leaders, very good friends of mine. And we discussed Ukraine in pretty strong words, and we'll see what happens.

I mean, we're waiting to hear answers before we progress.

You know, we—we're not spending any money in Ukraine. We're selling equipment—basically, missiles and everything else to NATO, and NATO is paying us, and then they distribute it to who they want. I guess they're mostly distributing to Ukraine. But—but we're not spending money.

But you know what we are? We're spending a lot of time and a lot of effort, because, last month, 27,000 soldiers were killed. Both—think of it, 27,000—that's—if you take a football game and take half the stadium, that's 27,000. So 27,000 soldiers were killed—Russian and Ukrainian soldiers were killed. And I want to see that stop. We'll find out.

Look, there are a lot of things happening right now. A lot of people say it's closer than it's ever been. It's a war that would have never started—if I were President, it would have never started. It's a war that should never have started. But we'll have it figured out, I think, with a—within a pretty short period.

Well, I think we had some little disputes about people. And we're going to see how it turns out. And we said, before we go to a meeting, we want to know some things. You know, they want to—they would like us to go to a meeting over the weekend in Europe, and we'll make a determination, depending on what they come back with.

We don't want to be——

——we don't want to be wasting time.

Sometimes you have to let people fight it out, and sometimes you don't. But the problem with letting people fight it out is you have—you're losing thousands of people a week.

It's ridiculous. The whole thing is ridiculous.

Venezuela

You'll get that information later.

No, I haven't.

Nope. Nope.

And us.

Well, I think he has to be realistic. And I do wonder about, you know, how long is it going to be until they have an election. You know, it's a democracy. It's a long time. They haven't had an election in a long time. He's losing a lot of people, and it's possible that the people—you know, if you look at the polls—I will say, 82 percent—there was a poll that came out: 82 percent of the people are demanding a settlement be made—Ukrainian people. They want to see a settlement be made. I understand that. They're losing thousands and thousands of people a week. They want to see it ended.

And I do say, you know, at what point—when do they have an election in Ukraine? That's not casting dispersions on anybody, but they do have a massive corruption situation going on there. And they do say, you know, when are they—people are asking this question: When do they have an election? Are they going to have an election, or are they going to just keep it going like this?

So I think it's time to get that war settled. And I think it's a war that can be settled, but it takes two to tango.

CNN

So what do you want to know?

Well, I'm not involved in that. I will be probably involved, maybe involved in the decision. It depends. You have some good companies bidding on it.

I think the people that have run CNN for the last long period of time are a disgrace. I think it's imperative that CNN be sold, because you certainly wouldn't want to put people—just leave those people with some money, good money—and CNN, so that, you know, they can spend even more money spreading poison, because it's lies. It's a disgrace.

So I wouldn't want to see the same company end up with CNN—the same company with money. Because, right now, they don't have too much money. But they have value, I guess, based on the bids. They say they've got value.

But I think CNN should be sold because I think the people that are running CN right now—CNN right now are either corrupt or incompetent.

Well, in my mind. But I'm—you know, I can be talked out of that by some very talented people that we have—anti-trust people. But I just think that the people that have run CNN—into the ground, by the way—nobody watches; very few people watch—I don't think they should be entrusted with running CNN any longer.

So I think any deal should—it should be guaranteed and certain that CNN is part of it, or sold separately. But I don't think the people that are running that company right now and running CNN, which is a very dishonest group of people—I don't think that should be allowed to continue. I think CNN should be sold along with everything else.

Consumer Prices/National Economy/Midterm Elections

I don't worry about it. You know, it's like—statistically, it's amazing. When you win the Presidency, even if you win by a landslide, like we did, and even if you do a good job—and some people say we've done the best opening 10 months in history—you know, in the history of the Presidency. I think we have. Who's done better?

We ended eight wars. We have the strongest economy. We have $18 trillion coming in, which is more than any country had times, I think, five or six. Eighteen trillion is a lot, even in your standard, right?

But we have $18 trillion coming in. Pretty amazing, right?

I think Qualcomm would be very impressed if they had even a little piece of that. That's—but—so we've done a great job.

But for whatever reason—and nobody's been able to give me an answer—when you win the Presidency, you seem to lose the midterms, even if you win the Presidency by a lot and you do a great job as President. You know, some presidents have done good, and they've lost. I think it's, like, two times in the last many, many years it's been won.

I don't know why. It doesn't make sense. Usually, I can figure things out, but I don't know why.

But that seems to be—but other than that, we should win, because we're doing great. The economy is roaring. I think the economy is only going to go in—you know, better, with all this money pouring in.

We have factories being built. And forget about AI. We have AI more than anybody. We're leading AI by a lot. But we have many car companies coming in from Canada, from Mexico. They're closing them. They're coming in from Mexico. They're coming in from Canada, from Japan, from Europe—all over Europe, Germany—all over Europe. I mean, we're doing great.

But for whatever reason, it doesn't matter how well they're doing, you know, good and bad. But the bad, you understand. But when—even when a President is doing well, they seem to not do well in the midterms.

So we're going to try and change it. There should be no reason for it. If anybody at the table can figure out—Bruce—a nice psychological reason.

But—so I want to win, and winning the midterms is important. People want us to win the midterms. And I think we have great spirit. We should win the midterms.

Yes.

Abortion Pills

Yes, I don't know about it.

I'll find out. I'll ask them.

There's—I don't think they're slow-walking anything. But I'll find out.

Yes.

Thailand/Cambodia

Yes, I think I'll have to make a phone call. I was going to say that the Thailand and Cambodia—one of the eight that I settled—they've been fighting for a long time. They've been fighting for a very long time—many, many, many decades. But I got along great with both. I found they were two great leaders, two great people, and I've settled it once. I think I can do it pretty quickly.

I think we're scheduling a phone call tomorrow——

With Thailand.

With Thailand. If you—you know, just to answer Steve—with Thailand and Cambodia, I think——

——I think I can get them to stop fighting.

Who else can do that? Think of it. Settled eight wars. Every once in a while, one will flame up again, and I have to put out that little flame. I have to put it out, but we're going to put it out again.

So I think I'm scheduled to speak to them tomorrow and see if I can——

It was a—it was unfortunate what happened. I mean, I know exactly what happened that got it started a little bit. But we'll see if we can put it out.

U.S. Seizure of an Oil Tanker in International Waters

Well, we keep it, I guess.

Well, you have to follow the tanker. You know, you're a good newsman. Just follow the tanker. [Laughter] Follow——

——follow it.

Follow it. Get a helicopter and follow the tanker.

But we're going to—I assume we're going to keep the oil.

Federal Reserve System Leadership/Interest Rates

I mean, yes, maybe. I don't——

Well, I'm meeting with Kevin Warsh today. So I'm meeting with him, and I sort of have a very good idea what I'm looking for.

Again, I'm looking for somebody that will be honest with interest rates. That's all. I just want honesty. Our rates should be much lower. Our rates should be the lowest rates in the world, because all these countries that you see, you know, with low rates, many of them are low because of us, because they suck so much money out of us. But that's not happening anymore.

We should have the lowest rates in the world. And without us, none of them really exist as an economy. I mean, I can show you these really prime, really wonderful countries. They've had nothing but success. It's because they—they took so much out of the United States. I mean, it's one of those little problems.

I want to see that when we do well, we're rewarded for doing well—not the way it's been for the last pretty long period of time.

Interest Rates

No.

No. I'll be asking questions, and I'll be able to figure it out.

U.S. Drug Interdiction Efforts/Colombia

No, I haven't really thought too much about him. He's been fairly hostile to the United States, and I haven't given him a lot of thought. He is—he's going to have himself some big problems if he doesn't wise up.

Colombia is producing a lot of drugs, a lot of—they have cocaine factories that—they make cocaine, as you know, and they sell it right into the United States. So he better wise up, or he'll be next. He'll be next too.

And I hope he's listening. He's going to be next.

Yes.

Because we don't like people when they kill people. And they sell drugs, they kill them in the United States. And Colombia is a major manufacturer of drugs, meaning cocaine, in particular, as you know.

Thank you.

I think Mike Johnson has been a fantastic speaker. I mean, a very hard job, because—you know, when you have a small majority. And we got the biggest bill in the history of our country approved: the "Great Big Beautiful Bill." I call it the "Great Big Beautiful Bill." There are different names for it, but to me, it's the "Great Big Beautiful Bill," because it gives the biggest tax cuts in history, the biggest regulation cuts in history, no tax on tips, no tax on Social Security, no tax on overtime.

I think Mike Johnson has been a great Speaker. I think few people could have done that job.

The President's Legislative Agenda

Well, we don't need it because we got everything. You know, this was supposed to be 17 bills. And I think it was my idea, but you know, with the concurrence of people that have done this a long time. And I said, "Why don't we make it one bill," because it's very hard to get things approved by the Democrats. And it worked out because there was something good for everybody. If we would have done 17 bills, we wouldn't have gotten a third of them approved.

There was something great for everybody in the one—you know, the "Great Big Beautiful Bill."

Brian [Brian Glenn, Real America's Voice].

Hi.

Yes. Big crowd.

The President's Remarks on the National Economy in Mount Pocono, Pennsylvania/Federal Law Enforcement Support in U.S. Cities

Last night was amazing in Pennsylvania. We had a tremendous crowd. It was, like, freezing, and the people—the thousands of people on the sidewalk trying to get in, on the streets. It was an amazing evening, actually, and I think people really enjoyed it. I enjoyed it. You could tell that.

I enjoyed it. I really did.

Well, you know, it's easy to enjoy when you do a good job and, you know, when you can talk about things in a very positive way. It's hard not to say it. We have potentially the greatest economic boom in the history of the world. It's being built right now. And when it opens, there will be nothing ever in history like what's happening in our country.

And you know, Washington, DC, is safe, and Memphis is now—look at Memphis. Crime is down 60 percent in Memphis. We just got there 3 weeks ago. And we're going to have New Orleans. New Orleans was—we just sent a group of people there, and crime is down 28 percent in about 3 days.

No, we do a good job. You know, and these are central-casting people. These people are—they're very tough people, if they have to be. They're very good. They're great patriots, but they are the toughest, and they don't take any nonsense. And every place we go, we knock down crime.

Too bad that we're not invited more into Chicago, because we could save Chicago very quickly. But even that, we're doing it on a minimal basis, until—you know, at some point, we'll just go in and do what we have to do if the Governor doesn't wise up. They've got a bad Governor. They have a bad mayor.

I would say they're both incompetent, but it's hard to believe that people don't want to stop crime. We could stop the crime in Chicago in about 2 weeks.

Go ahead.

Special Immigration Program

Howard.

Basically, it's a green card but much better, much more powerful. A much stronger path, and a path is a big deal. They have to be great people, but much stronger path.

And it also, in addition to that, helps companies, because it's not only for companies, but if IBM gets somebody—number one in his class at the Wharton School of Finance, and you're dying to get the person but you can't guarantee the person stays in the country, because oftentimes, they'll say: "I'm sorry, sir. You've got to get out of here. You have 24 hours." Right? And you say, "Where's my employee?" Now, IBM can buy a card, and that employee can be there for, essentially, a very long period of time.

It was—it's so needed for the companies. You know, it's needed for others, but really, it's basically a much better form of a green card. And you can't get green cards. They are impossible to get. This is much better than a green card.

Yes.

County Executive Bruce Blakeman of Nassau County, New York/Representative Elise M. Stefanik/New York Gubernatorial Election

I haven't spoken to—first of all, he's a friend. She's a friend. These are two great people running. In a way, I hate to see them running against each other. I hope they're not going to be damaging each other. But Elise is fantastic, and Bruce is—they're two fantastic people. And I always hate it when two very good friends of mine are running, and I hope there's not a lot of damage done.

Sometimes it works the other way. The victor ends up being much stronger because of it. A lot of times that happens in politics.

Well, I think, in New York, we have a convention toward the end of February, and I think you'll know pretty much at the end of February what's going to happen. And I'll probably have to, you know, do what I want to do, but I hope—he's running now, as you know, and she's running. We have two very talented people. Either one should win against the Democrats.

The President's Cabinet/Education

Well, I think my Cabinet is fantastic. I read the same stories that I'm unhappy with this one or that one, and I'm not. I think the Cabinet has done a great job.

I read a story that I was unhappy with Pete because he was attacking drug dealers. I said, "That's not exactly right." I would say very much the opposite. Pete Hegseth has been phenomenal.

I read a story recently I'm unhappy with Kristi. I'm so happy with her. I mean, we have a closed border. We have a border that's the best border in the history of our country. Why would I be unhappy? She's fantastic, actually.

No, we have a fantastic Cabinet—a really fantastic Cabinet.

I mean, Lutnick I'll have to think about. [Laughter] No, I'm only——

No, he's doing great. Well, Howard has done really well, and Scott has done really well. We have just a fantastic Cabinet.

I'll tell you who's doing a great job, is Linda McMahon. We're bringing education back to the States, where it belongs. Education is going—we can't do any worse than we're doing right now. Let the States run it.

You know, if you go back to some of our States, and it runs so well, so good. I would say 40 of them. And then you'll have trouble with five, and you'll have bigger trouble with another five. But you have 35 or 40 States that will run education as good as Norway or Denmark, Sweden.

We have some—you know, the heads of the list are Denmark, Norway, Sweden, a few others. I think if you go to Iowa and you go to Indiana and you go to—I can name a lot of States—I think it would be almost the equivalent or maybe better. But you can't run a school system in Iowa from Washington, DC.

Yes.

Gaza, Palestinian Territories/Board of Peace

Well, we'll do it early next year.

And the Board of Peace are going to—it will be one of the most legendary boards ever. Everybody wants to be on it. It's mostly going to be, I guess—you know, we weren't thinking about it that way, but they want to all do it.

Basically, it will be the heads of the most important countries.

They all want to be on.

It wasn't really planned. We—you know, we thought we're going to get very distinguished people that do that kind of thing for a living. But really, it looks like it's turning out to be—they want to be on. The heads—the Kings and the Presidents, Prime Ministers, they all want to be on the Board of Peace.

Consumer Prices/Border Security

No, the word—the word that they use is a hoax, and—because they're the ones that cause the problem. I'm only——

No, I'm talking about when you—you know, you're trying to say it a different way. No, it's pretty simple, though, if you listen.

It's a hoax where they created the problem. They're the ones that gave the high prices. So, when they use the word "affordability," they shouldn't be using that word because they're the ones that created this problem. They created the highest inflation in history, and they created the highest prices in history, and now we have to get those things down.

But what—they go, they look, and they say, "Affordability." They never discuss it. They just say, "The election is about affordability." Well, it may very well be. I think it's also about, still, the border. You have to remember the job.

You know, the sad thing is, for 7 months, we've had no people come through our border. Nobody can even believe it. Zero people. And the people that do that are largely Democrats, which—the people that do the stats. We've had no people come in, other than coming in legally.

But if you take a look—and nobody wants to talk about that. In fact, last night I said, "Let me talk about the border." My own people told me: "Sir, nobody cares about the border anymore. You've fixed the problem." I said, "Do I get a little credit for fixing a disaster where millions of people a month would flow into our country and, you know, from prisons and from gangs and from drug dealers and every—and mental institutions?" They say, "Sir, you fixed the border. Nobody cares." I say, "But I care."

It's sad when you fix something and then you can't even use it. You can't talk about it. My own people don't want to talk about it anymore.

But the Democrats—very simply, the Democrats created the worst crisis of inflation that this country has ever had, and with that came the highest prices that we've ever had. And I'm fixing it.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific/CNN

No, he hasn't told me. I thought that issue was dead. I'm even surprised you're bringing up. You must be——

You must be CNN.

Are you CNN?

Are you CNN?

Oh, gee. I'm shocked to find that out. [Laughter]

Well, I'll tell you, I don't know about lawmakers. Which lawmakers are you talking about? Democrats?

Are you talking about Democrats?

You mean the people that you work for, the Democrats? You know you work for the Democrats, don't you? You're basically an arm of the Democrat Party.

Thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much.
