Announcer. The medal is given exceptionally to heads of state of friendly nations who have contributed to the national security of Korea. Mr. President, you are the first American president to receive this medal.

The flower named Mugunghwa embodies the meaning of eternity. The laurel wreath symbolizes peace, freedom, victory. The gold crown symbolizes honor befitting the best of leaders.

As we give this medal to you, we convey our highest respect and appreciation to you for demonstrating the will to defend peace, strong leadership, and dedication to the Korea-U.S. relationship.

To honor your achievements in paving the way toward peace on the Korean Peninsula six years ago and in anticipation of the peace and prosperity you will bring to the Korean Peninsula, we present to you this medal with our deepest appreciation.

Thank you. Thank you very much. Wow. That's as beautiful as it could possibly be. I'll always cherish it. It's very special.

Thank you very much. That is really beautiful. Wow. I'd like to wear it right now. [Laughter] Thank you so much. We'll cherish it. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it.

Announcer. Next is a gift from President Lee Jae Myung to President Trump. This is the Cheonmachong gold crown, which is a key artifact that represents the Silla dynasty, the first Korean kingdom to unite the Korean Peninsula.

This gold crown is the largest and most extravagant of the six existing gold crowns from the Silla period. The Cheonmachong gold crown symbolizes the divine connection between the authority of the heavens and sovereignty on Earth, as well as the strong leadership and authority of a leader.

We present this gold crown to you on this joyous occasion of your state visit to Gyeongju because it symbolizes the spirit of Silla, which brought peace to the Korean Peninsula for the first time, and the opening the golden age of the Korean-U.S. alliance.

[Inaudible]—very special. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you very much.
