Well, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. What an honor.

Well, this is a very special occasion, and it is indeed my honor to welcome to the White House a great friend and a man of leadership, vision, courage, and strength, His Royal Highness Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

And we had a big day today, a very big day for both countries. We've gotten to know each other well over the years, and he has become a true partner for peace and prosperity for our countries and for the world and for peace in the Middle East, which was a crowning achievement for both of us.

And I just want to say that, Crown Prince Muhammad, we're delighted to have you with us at the White House. Very special. Very, very special.

I'd like to also express my gratitude to our wonderful First Lady for organizing this beautiful evening. She worked hard on it. Thank you very much, Melania. Thank you.

And we're pleased to be joined as well by Vice President J.D. Vance and his magnificent wife Usha. Thank you. Thank you, J.D.

Eight decades ago, in 1945, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt met with the Crown Prince's own grandfather, the founder of the Saudi Arabian incredible country, and that was King Abdulaziz, on the deck of the U.S. Navy cruiser, and a beautiful one at that. And it's become known for that meeting all over the world. The two became immediate and warm friends.

And, in fact, when we were walking down the Presidential Walk of Fame today, I said, "So which one"—other than Trump, of course, because Trump absolutely is number one in this category, meaning friend to Saudi Arabia. [Laughter] I said, "Which is the greatest of the presidents—friends of Saudi Arabia?" And I think you said, very truly, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Now, he's a Democrat, so I don't know—[laughter]—but I understood it. And it's true. He was a great friend, and right now you have the best friend you've ever had.

But ever since, our countries have been enduring partners. And together, this evening we're making that partnership closer and stronger than ever before. And we've never had the relationship—our countries—like this. We had 4 great years. But things happened today, and documents were signed, and we went through a lot during the first 9 months, and we have a very different Middle East than we had when I first came into office. Like, I would say day and night.

As I saw during my wonderful visit to the kingdom in May, with the crown prince's help, Saudi Arabia has made extraordinary strides and grown into an economic engine and, really, a modern-day miracle, an amazing transformation, and all for the good. This opening up of the new avenues of cooperation between the United States and Saudi Arabia is really unprecedented.

And on that trip, Saudi Arabia announced that it will invest an incredible $600 billion. That means jobs. That means jobs. It's also good for your companies, but I'm only interested in the jobs for your country—I'm not interested in the profits, but I guess the profits are there too. But $600 billion in the United States.

And today I said, "Any way you can up that?" And he said, "I am going to up that to $1 trillion." So he's investing $1 trillion into the United States.

And when I was in Saudi Arabia, he looked at me—and I've used his name all over the place, because he was the first to say it, but a lot of people have said it after. He said, "You know, 1 year ago, we thought your country was dead, and now you have the hottest country anywhere in the world." We are the hottest country anywhere in the world right now.

So I want to thank you for giving me one of the most effective lines that I have. And I quote you, and I quote some others, but I always put you up at top. But many people have said that.

This week, we're also signing exciting agreements on civil nuclear energy, critical minerals, and artificial intelligence, numbers that nobody has ever heard of before.

And, Jensen, I want to thank you. You had a great meeting—of Nvidia—wherever you may be. And I want to thank Tim Cook and Apple for all of the money that you're investing in the United States. They're both investing $600 billion. And we have numerous other countries—companies in the room that are likewise investing large sums, because they believe in what we are doing and what's taken place—this miracle that's taken place in the U.S.A.

Together, these will come together, and we're going to have support. The many thousands of American jobs that have been created and helped solidify the U.S.A. and the world leader. We're really now, by far, the world leader in technology, and nobody even questions it. Advanced manufacturing and other vital industries.

They were saying 2, 3 years ago, when the country was really losing business, not gaining business, that we'll never be manufacturers again, we'll never be doing any of these businesses again that are coming back to us in record numbers. AI plants, but maybe even most importantly, in a sense, the auto plants—they're all pouring back into the United States and, I have to say, because of tariffs. I'll also say because of November 5, the election. But because of the tariffs, they're coming back.

We have the head of Ford; we have the head of General Motors in the room. And their stock has gone through the roof because what I did with tariffs last week on certain kinds of vehicles. I won't get into it. It's called mid-size trucks and large trucks. So I wanted to get into it, because their stock went through the roof, and they were very happy.

They did not really a hell of a lot of work. I gave it to them at their request, and for that, they get a big fat salary. But more importantly, they create jobs all over the country. It's been amazing.

And the business you've gotten in the mid-size and the large trucks because of what we did with tariffs is incredible. It's incredible. So I congratulate both companies, and thank you both for being here very much.

And as we announced in May, Saudi Arabia is also making an enormous commitment to building up its own defense capabilities, with the largest arms purchase in history, nearly 142 billion dollars' worth of American military equipment and services.

And as I've said many times, and we've demonstrated just a short while ago, but quite a bit: We make the best military equipment in the world, by far. We make the best jets, the best missiles. We make the best military equipment in the world. There's nothing even close.

But this will mark and make both of our nations safer and cement the kingdom's role as a key force for stability and security in the Middle East. And they are, I think, right now, I can say with what we did with our beautiful B–2 bombers going in and obliterating a very serious nuclear threat, which would have taken place in about a month from that day—they were ready to go—they're not ready to go anymore. They'd like very much to make a deal with us, and they call us, and we'll end up probably doing that. That's Iran.

But when you really think about it, Your Majesty, I think that this is the best in terms of safety. Saudi Arabia has never been as safe as it is right now. You always had a little cloud over your head, and sometimes that cloud was very big. That cloud is not there anymore, and we want to keep it that way.

So that's why tonight I'm pleased to announce that we're taking our military cooperation to even greater heights by formally designating Saudi Arabia as a major non-NATO ally, which is something that is very important to them. And I'm just telling you now for the first time, because they wanted to keep a little secret for tonight. I just heard him say, "Ooh, that's nice." [Laughter] That's another point you won today. But—and signing a historic strategic defense agreement, which we just signed a little while ago. So congratulations. It's our great honor.

A stronger and more capable alliance will advance the interests of both countries, and it will serve the highest interest of peace. And we all share in peace, and we've never had and been so close to truly everlasting peace in the Middle East. All my life, I've heard, "Oh, peace in the Middle East, but it will never happen." We did it. Now we have to make sure it matures properly and is really as strong as we think it can be. But we've gotten all good signals. I want to just thank you for all the help too.

I want to thank the Crown Prince for the role he played in the transformational peace deal that was achieved last month and so many of the other things that happened to end the war in Gaza. Gaza, while it looks a little bit messy—it has for many, many years, I will tell you—many decades—but it's getting very close to being perfected, and people are shocked. And even the great experts that have gone around criticizing badly every country and every President and everything, they're all saying that what's taking place in the Middle East is a miracle. They're just calling it a miracle. And we're going to make it a miracle, and we're very close to doing that.

But, as you know, all of the living hostages were returned to their families. We got all 20—20 out of 20. And likewise, this sounds terrible, but the parents of the dead people, young men—mostly young men, almost all young men—they wanted those bodies back as much as the parents of the living. The parents of the living would do anything to get their boy back, and they got them back. And the parents of the dead wanted them just as much. It almost seemed as though they wanted them more.

And today, through the efforts of Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner and Marco Rubio and everybody—everybody worked together. We worked so hard together. Two more bodies were brought back, and we're up to almost the full count. I think we're too short right now. And a lot of work has been done by Hamas. And a lot of people said they wouldn't be doing that, but they did do it. And the bodies have been delivered to the families, to the mothers, to the fathers, and at least they can be in peace. It's amazing.

It was a miserable period of time. We have two more to go, and I think we'll be getting them also. Not easy. That was not easy. Not an easy situation. And I've met with many of those parents, and what a time—what a time they've had.

But we also want to thank all of the people living in Gaza, the residents of Gaza, and they're—they've, as you know, begun to move back to their homes, and a lot more safety—they said today—a lot more safety than they've ever had before. It was a rough neighborhood, to put it mildly, and a lot of progress has been made with respect to Gaza and just about everything else we touch.

Just yesterday the United Nations Security Council formally adopted my peace plan and officially endorsed the Board of Peace. This is a board like no other. It will have the heads of major countries—I think all of the major countries. I hope Your Highness will be on the board. You'll accept, I hope.

But the Board of Peace will be something that's never even been thought of before, and it's covering Gaza, but it will end up covering large portions of the world. And I was honored to be chosen the Chair of that Board of Peace. And I think you'll see something that nobody has ever seen before, in terms of the status of the Board. There will never be a Board like the board that we're going to be announcing. Everybody wants to be on the board, and it will end up being quite a large Board, because it will be the heads of every major country.

And the United Nations passed it, I guess, unanimously, you can say. China, which was against it, took a pass—didn't vote against it. And Russia, which was against it, didn't vote against it. So we appreciate it, because one negative vote, and it doesn't happen.

So people were shocked to see that it was approved, and that was a great honor. It's a great honor for me, I will tell you. I think it's something like nobody's ever even imagined.

So it's called the Board of Peace. And watch for it, because it's going to do some fantastic things.

And I know we're both deeply committed to an enduring ceasefire. It grows into the beautiful lasting peace, and we've got things going at numbers and far ahead of schedule that nobody thought was possible.

So, Your Royal Highness, just as my predecessors and so many of the people that you know and love from a long time ago, they bonded with the U.S. and Saudi relationship, which was forged 80 years ago, you and I are strengthening and renewing the alliance, I believe, to levels that were far greater than what they had even 80 years ago, frankly.

We pray that we will be celebrated by our own descendants somedays for this incredible relationship that's been built between the United States of America and Saudi Arabia. Someday, they maybe will talk about us as being two wonderful men. Forget about "great." "Wonderful" is okay. But two wonderful men that did tremendous work for their countries. And that bond is very important.

Our friendship and blessings to America, to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and to the world stand out and will always stand out to me.

So I look forward to working with you, and we'll be here for 3¼ years. For the Trump, that's like an eternity, you know? [Laughter] For somebody else, that doesn't sound long. But we love doing it. We love—you know we have an expression: Make America great again. And that's what we're doing, beyond what anyone even thought possible.

So I just want to thank you for being a very big part of it. And I want to thank you for a $1 trillion investment and contribution toward our country. That's a lot of jobs. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Please.

Thank you.

Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman. Well, it's too hard to speak after Mr. President. No one speaks better than him.

But first of all, I will start with: Thank you, Mr. President, for the warm and great welcome that we have today. We feel home. And this relation started around close to nine decades ago with Roosevelt and King Abdulaziz, who established the modern Saudi Arabia.

Also, I've known that America is almost celebrating 250 years of establishment. And also, in 2 years, we will celebrate in Saudi Arabia 300 years of establishing Saudi Arabia.

We've been, since the last nine decades, working together in many areas: during the World War II, we was a major supplier for oil; during the cold war; countering extremism, terrorism. But during that time, we've been also working in a lot of economical opportunities.

But today, it's a special day. We think the horizon of the economical cooperation between Saudi Arabia and the United States of America, it's bigger and wider in many areas. We've been signing a lot of agreement that going to open the door to develop the relation deeper in many areas. And we're going to work on it. We believe the opportunities is huge. So we're going to focus on implementation and keep increasing the opportunities between our both countries.

So thank you again, Mr. President.

Thank you very much.

Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman. And also, before I come here, I—someone told me that there is—some of the betting sites, that they are betting on me wearing black suits. And if you bet on me wearing black suits, I come here with the black suits, they're going to get almost 17x.

So I want to tell them, "Sorry, you lose the bet." [Laughter] Maybe next time.

So thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.

Thank you very much. Appreciate it.

Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman. Thank you.

Thank you very much.
