Hello, everybody.

How are you? Bumpy weather up in the plane. We're way up in the air. We're a little bit bumpy.

So what's the word? Do you have any questions?

Brazil-U.S. Trade/President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil

Very good. We had a good meeting. We'll see what happens. I don't know if anything is going to happen, but we'll see. They'd like to do a deal. We'll see. Right now they're paying, I guess, 50-percent tariff.

But we had a great meeting. It's happy birthday. I want to wish the President happy birthday. Okay? It's his birthday today. Did you know that?

He's a very vigorous guy, actually, and I was very impressed. But today's his birthday. So happy birthday. All right. Would you let him know, please?

He's right here.

Where is he? He's right here, the handsome guy behind me.

Stand right—stand right over here.

Wait. Let me just give him a little room. He's doing a good job. Come over here. We also have Marco here.

China-U.S. Trade/U.S. Automobile Industry/Tariffs

But we feel good. I mean, we feel good. I feel better that this guy has got nice, broad shoulders. If the plane makes a big turn or something, I'm grabbing his shoulder. [Laughter]

You know what, [inaudible] over here. Marco, where are you? Come on up here. Want to move over here. I think it's——

You know that if I weren't elected President, in my opinion, every automobile company in the United States would be either bankrupt or very close to it. And instead, they hitting record highs. Their stock is through the roof. You saw Ford and you saw General Motors yesterday go up big. It's all because of tariffs. If it weren't tariffs, it'd be just like it's been for the last 30 years, where we lost about 52 percent of our automobile manufacturing business.

In my opinion, whether it be now or very shortly, if it weren't for what I've done as president, every automobile company in America would be bankrupt. Instead, they're doing phenomenal business. That's all because of tariffs.

All right, go ahead.

Canada-U.S. Trade/Tariffs

I don't know. We're going to—we're going to let them know.

Ronald Reagan loved tariffs. He used them sparingly, which he probably would make a mistake—he made a mistake on that. And again, I'm—I was the biggest fan of Ronald Reagan, but on finance, on trade, it wasn't his strong suit. But he liked tariffs, and they totally changed that to say that he didn't, because they're catering to the Supreme Court, because Canada has been ripping us off for a long time, and they're not going to rip us off anymore.

Canada has been ripping us off for a long time.

One of the most difficult countries to deal with has been Canada. As much as I love Canada itself and the people of Canada, they've just had a lot of bad representatives.

They did a fake ad yesterday. They were caught. The Ronald Reagan Foundation was the one that caught them, and it was totally the opposite of what they said. So I don't like that. That's dirty pool, and you can't do that. And—and let me just tell you, they shouldn't have done it. They've apologized, and they said, "We're going to take the ad down." Well, they did it, but they did it very late. They let it play for another 2 nights, and now they took that ad down.

So I don't know when it's going to kick in. We'll see. But I don't really want to discuss it.

Let's go.

Ontario Province Advertisement Critical of U.S. Tariff Policy

I don't care. Because the—whether it's provincial or Canada itself, they all knew exactly what the ad was. The Prime Minister knew. Everybody knew. The prime minister knew what the ad was before it ran.

Federal Reserve System Board of Governors

I'm thinking about Marco. I'm thinking about Jamieson. [Laughter] Would you like that? I'm thinking about a lot of people.

I think it's the world's easiest job, but to get it right, you have to be very smart. And we have a person that's not at all smart right now, and for it—he should have been much lower, much sooner. That's why we call him Jerome "Too Late" Powell.

Let's go.

Missile Testing/Russia/Ukraine

They know we have a nuclear submarine, the greatest in the world, right off their shores. So, I mean, doesn't have to go 8,000 miles. And they're not playing games with us. We're not playing games with them either.

We test missiles all the time. But you know, we do have a submarine—a nuclear submarine. We don't need to go 8,000 miles. And I don't think it's an appropriate thing to Putin—for Putin to be saying, either, by the way.

You ought to get the war ended. A war that should have taken 1 week is now in its soon fourth year. That's what he ought to do, instead of testing missiles.

European Sanctions on Russia

I don't know. That's—you have to ask EU. I'm not involved in that. That's up to EU.

Russia/U.S. Sanctions

You'll find out.

U.S. Shipbuilding Industry

Well, pretty obvious answer to that: because we want more ships. We're going to be back in the shipbuilding industry. We have a lot of companies coming into our country now. They're going to start building. We have the shipyards available.

You know, in World War II, we were the biggest in the world in shipbuilding, and then over the years, we went wokey and stupid and weak, and we started buying ships from everybody.

And you know, we lost that industry, but we'll get that industry back. We were the best at it, and we'll soon be very good at it, if not the best.

And I know they were very close, and I think philosophically they were close, which is good. It's going to be very good. That really helps Japan and the United States. I think she's going to be great.

The President's Schedule

I'd rather not say. You'll see tomorrow.

No, but it's something we're going to talk about.

China-U.S. Trade

I don't want to tell you what the understanding is because what we understood yesterday or 2 days ago or even today is not going to be necessarily what it's going to be in two days. We're going to have a great talk. I have a lot of respect for President Xi. I like him a lot. He likes me a lot, I believe, and respects me, and I think he respects our country a lot. And we're going to have—I think we're going to have a successful transaction for both countries.

Crash of a U.S. Naval Aircraft in South China Sea

I've heard about it. Yes. Yes.

They're going to let me know pretty soon. I think they should be able to find out. It could be bad fuel. I mean, it's possible it's bad fuel. Very unusual that that would happen, to be honest.

No, no. They're thinking might be bad fuel. We're going to find out. Nothing to hide. We'll find out.

South Korea/Immigration Enforcement Actions/U.S. Shipbuilding Industry

No, I don't think so. Scott, is there?

South Korean Investment and Business Ventures in the U.S.

No, but you know how I feel. I was very much opposed. Look, when they come in, and they're making very complex machinery, equipment, things, they're going to have to bring some people in, at least at the initial phase. In that case, it was batteries. Batteries are very complex, and they're actually very dangerous to make. You can't just pick people off an unemployment line and say, "We just, you know, opened up a $2 billion battery factory." So we've got an understanding. And this is with the world.

By the way, this is not just with South—this is—when they come into our country—we have a lot of factories being built by outside—by foreign interests. When they come in, some of these factories make very, very complex, very highly sophisticated equipment. They've got to bring people in with them for a period of time. They'll teach our people how to do it. But even for a fairly long period of time, they're going to need expertise to be successful.

And we're going to let people know. I'm letting them know right now that when they come into our country, we can expect to see them bring in with them some very talented people that have been doing it for many years. They'll teach our people how to do it. Our people will be just as good as they are within a period of time. And it'll be a phase out. But we want them to bring in experts, and that's the way it is.

Semiconductor Manufacturing/Workforce Development

We're going to have that set. We're doing a whole new plan for that. But what you can expect—let's say they come in—for instance, we have massive number of chip companies—in particular, one the biggest, by far; the biggest in the world coming in. You can't expect them to make unbelievably complex chips and computers and other things and pick people off the unemployment line that haven't worked in 5 years. But we're going to. So I want them to come in with talented people, and they're going to—we—it will be a phase out—a slow phase out.

Immigration Enforcement Actions

I was opposed to getting them out. And in fact, before they got out, they were pretty well set. But before they got out, I said they could stay. They went, they left, and they're going to be coming back.

So Argentina, that was a great thing. And I give Scott and I give Jamieson, everybody—Marco—a lot of credit for that, because, you know, we are sticking with a lot of the countries in South America. We're focusing on—very much on South America, and we're getting a real strong handle in South America in a lot of ways, including the fact that we don't want their drugs. We don't want drugs coming into our country, and you're seeing that.

Domestic Agriculture Production/Beef Prices

Well, we'll see. We'll see. We're going to take care of—look, we're going to take care of our ranchers one way or the—we have two situations. The ranchers, for 35 years, have done very poorly, the cattle people. They've done very, very poorly. And now they're doing well, but the price is up. So what I can see happening is, we're going to take some beef, because I have to get the price down. I want to get—most prices are down. If you look at energy and all the—I have things down, but beef is high, and the cattle ranches are doing good. They backed me from day one. What we're going to do is we're going to make sure that they don't get hurt. But we have to also make sure that I get the prices down. I want to get the prices down like I did with eggs, like I did with lots of others.

We had a couple of them where, when I first took over, eggs were double and quadruple what they were. That was Biden's fault. A lot of this is Biden's fault too. And we're going to get the price of beef down, and I'm going to make sure the cattle ranchers don't get hurt.

State Affairs Commission President Kim Jong Un of North Korea

I haven't mentioned it. I haven't said anything. But I'd love to meet with him if he'd like to meet. I got along great with Kim Jong Un. I liked him. He liked me. If he wants to meet, I'll be in South Korea.

Say it?

Well, I hadn't thought of it, but I think the answer would be yes, I would. I would do that, sure. It's our last stop, so it's pretty easy to do. Yes, I would you do that.

The President's Schedule

With Kim Jong Un?

Well, I didn't say I was meeting with him——

——but I'd like to meet him around. You know, I'll be in South Korea, so I could be right over there. We'll hop——

Well, we have sanctions. Right? That's pretty big to start off with. I would say that's about as big as you get.

I just had a good relationship with him. I would love to see him if he wants to, if he even gets this message. We haven't mentioned anything, but he knows I'm going over there. If he'd like to meet, I'd love to meet him.

Air Traffic Control System Staffing Shortages/Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations

Yes, there is. But the Democrat should just do a simple extension. That's the best way. The Democrats are holding it up. They want $1.5 trillion for people that came out of prisons, for illegal aliens that come into our country. We don't want to do that, because that will help—really hurt the health care that we have in our country, and frankly, we'd like to see better health care, period. We're not looking to do that.

The Democrats can solve that problem with air traffic control. All they have to do say, "The country is open." We only need five votes. The Republicans are with us. We only need five votes. So let's see what happens. I would imagine that gets taken care of—not only the controllers but other people too.

Former White House Senior Adviser Elon R. Musk

I think it's good. I mean, you saw that during Charlie's beautiful tribute. Elon came up. It's good with Elon. I like Elon. I've always liked Elon. Elon is good.

On and off. A little bit. Yes, very little. Nothing much.

Look, he's a nice guy, and he's a very capable guy. I've always liked him. He had a bad spell. He had a bad period. He had a bad moment. It was a stupid moment in his life. Very stupid. I'm sure—I'm sure he'd tell you that. But I like Elon, and I suspect I'll always like him.

Illegal Immigration/Federal Law Enforcement Support in U.S. Cities

Well, when people come into our country illegally, especially in terms of speed, they're very bad ones—murderers, because we've had murders came in through the Biden administration—we have very tight borders now, but we had open borders. Incredibly, we had open borders.

What were they thinking? But we have murders. Over 11,000 murders came in. Many of them murdered more than one person. We want those people out. We want people that were in prisons, we want them to go back to their prison, not our prison. We want them out, and we'll get them out. Get them all out.

It was really a terrible mistake that was made. When you think of it, so much of a time—our time is spent on that subject. And it's a big subject, because it's probably 20 or 25 million people, the real number. And of the 25 million people, it's, you know, millions of people should not be here. Now, all of them shouldn't be here if they came in illegally, but we have to get the criminals out.

Washington, DC, is doing great. Memphis is starting to do great. We just started there 2 weeks ago. Any place we touch is going to do well.

If I were a Governor, I'd say: "Please get your—get your people in. Whether it's National Guard or the military, get them in." And as you know, we've been winning those cases.

San Francisco, California/Chicago, Illinois

Yes, I mean, I'd like to do it. But you know, I have a lot of very important people that are really into San Francisco that are really trying to do it themselves. I said we can do it better, because we have a strong group, a tough group, a group that has powers that other people don't have. Locally, you don't have the powers that the Federal Government has, and we can do a better job of it faster.

But I listened to a few of the people—you know, Jensen, who's fantastic, from Nvidia, as you know, and Marc from—he owns Time Magazine, among a lot of other things, right? He's a good man. And they would love to give it a shot. And I say: "Go ahead. Do it."

And I would have done that with Chicago, but Chicago is very far along the way. We have to do something with that. If—I have a lot of friends influential in Chicago. If they call me, maybe I'd do the same thing.

But we have to save Chicago immediately. We can do that pretty easily, but we have to get in quickly.

Argentina/South America/U.S. Assistance

Yes.

Well, we have the alltime expert right here. I think right now we've made a lot of money based on that election, because the bonds have gone up, their whole debt rating has gone up. You know, that election made a lot of money for the United States.

Now we're not in that for money, per se. But if you look at the value of the bonds, the debt—

Scott, you go ahead. Please.

And we're helping other South American countries also, as you know.

They might. Yes, we would consider it, I think. I think they'll be a good shape.

The polls were very wrong on that election. I mean, the polls really got it wrong. That was an election they said was going to be lost, and not only was it won, but it was won by a lot.

And maybe we did help. I hope we helped.

Press Access

We're not saying "You—please don't ask this question." You can ask anything you want.

There's never been anything like this. Do you agree with that?

Federal Reserve System Board of Governors Leadership

How's Karoline doing? Good? Would you say she's doing good or just okay?

White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt. I'm the one who brought them all back here. You should be thanking me. [Laughter]

That's right. Without her, we wouldn't be here right now. She's doing great.

I'd say maybe by the end of the year.

The President's Foreign Policy

Well, I haven't really thought about it. We have some very good people, as you know. But I've had—I have the best poll numbers I've ever had. I mean, I just solved eight wars, and a ninth is coming. I believe Russia-Ukraine will happen. But we just did—you know, we just left—and when you look at the treaty we just did, that was a war—that was thousands of people were already shot at the border. And when you look at what we just did was pretty amazing. Pretty amazing.

We got a lot of good credit. And I really have to thank Malaysia for that, because they really—the Prime Minister and everybody really helped get the two countries together. But it was—it was quite a great peace treaty.

But that was one of eight. And makes me feel good. I mean, it's millions of people that we save. We—I saved the lives of millions of people. That's what's important.

Yes.

2028 Presidential Election/Democratic Party

They are good people. What?

Oh, we have great people. I don't have to get into that, but we have one of them standing right here. We have J.D., obviously, the Vice President, who's great. I think Marco is great. I think—I'm not sure if anybody would run against those two. I think if they ever formed a group, it would be unstoppable. I really do. I believe that. I would—I would love to do it. And I have my best numbers ever. It's very terrible. I have my best numbers, and if you read—if you read a——

Am I not ruling it out? You'll have to tell me. All I can tell you is that we have a great—a great group of people, which they don't. They have Jasmine Crockett, a low-IQ person. They have—A.O.C. is low IQ. If you give her an IQ test—have her pass, like, the exams that I decided to take when I was at Walter Reed. I took—those are very hard—they're really aptitude tests, I guess, in a certain way, but they're cognitive tests.

Let A.O.C. go against Trump. Let Jasmine go against Trump. I don't think Jasmine—the first couple of questions are easy. A tiger, an elephant, a giraffe, you know. When you get up to about 5 or 6, and then when you get up to 10 and 20 and 25, they couldn't come close to answering any of those questions.

The President's Health

I did. I got an MRI. It was perfect. Yes.

I mean, I gave you the full results. We had an MRI. And in the machine, you know, the whole thing. And it was perfect, yes.

I—you could ask the doctors. In fact, we have doctors traveling with us. But I think they gave you a very conclusive—nobody has ever given you reports like I gave you. And if I didn't think it was going to be good, either I would let you know negatively, I wouldn't run, I'd do something. But the doctor said some of the best reports—for the age, some of the best reports they've ever seen.

2028 Presidential Election

Yes, I'd be allowed to do that.

Yes, you'd be to do that, but I wouldn't want—I wouldn't do it. I think it's——

It's too cute. Yes, I would rule that out, because it's too cute. I think the people wouldn't like that. It's too cute. It's not—it wouldn't be right.

Golf

Ah.

You mean right now?

The most difficult shot? It used to be chipping, but I've become a very good chipper. I hit them all pretty good. I'm a pretty good golfer. I won 38 club championships. That's pretty good. And pretty much I hit—I'm very solid, very consistent, pretty long. I mean, I hit the ball pretty long.

I play with Gary Player. You know, Gary is 90, and he shot 70 with me the last time we played, which is pretty amazing, from—[inaudible].

Putting is pretty good. Putting is—used to be—I'd say putting used to be the best. But I'd say putting is pretty good.

Vietnam-U.S. Trade/Tariff Adjustments

Yes.

I don't know.

Our country is doing so well economically. It's doing so incredibly well. The Democrats should let it open. I guess they don't do that because it's doing so well. It's too bad. But on the—you know, the macro scale, it's not having that kind of an effect. We just want people to get paid. We think it's very unfair.

And how about the man that put up $130 million to make sure our military got paid? This is a——

I won't tell you. I won't tell you.

But this is a person that called me, that said, "Sir, I'd like to make a contribution of any difference needed for the United States military." I said: "I don't know. That could be a big number." And we worked it out. It was about $130 million. And he wrote a check for $130 million, because he's an unbelievable patriot, and that's what it's all about.

So we're going to have a good time over the next 2 days. Get little rest.

Major League Baseball's World Series/Baseball Hall of Fame

I haven't been watching it too much, the World Series. No, I'm disappointed——

They didn't put Pete Rose in. I said, "Put Pete Rose in before he dies." He had over 4,000 hits. They didn't do it. And with all the gambling you see now, I mean, give me a break. They didn't put Pete Rose in. I asked the commissioner, "Put Pete Rose in, Commissioner," long before he died, like a year before he died. They didn't get it done. Should have gotten it done. Pete Rose. Pete Rose was a great baseball player.

China-U.S. Relations/Vietnam

Yes.

Well, sometime after—I'm going to go—we pretty much agreed that I'll be going to China.

In the earlier part of the year.

And President Xi will be coming into maybe Washington or in Palm Beach or someplace sometime after that.

Well, he invited me. If I can, I will. We have a good relationship with Vietnam. And they were—look, they made a lot of money with the United States over the years with presidents that really didn't know what they were doing.

But now, as you know, Vietnam is not charging those tariffs, and that's a big step. And based on that, I would. That's a big move for them.

China-U.S. Trade

I don't think it's going to be. It may be a part of the talk, but it may be a part of just the negotiation.

I just like him. We were obviously—that was hurt pretty badly by COVID when COVID came in. It came in through Wuhan. Everybody knows that. I always said it. I said it right from the beginning. So that had an impact, but, you know, an impact for a lot of reasons. Number one, we didn't get to speak as much because we're all busy getting out of that nightmare.

But no, I think have a very good relationship, as good as anybody, and I would say that likewise with him.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
