Well, Jamieson, perhaps you could explain this deal to the media and your counterpart also would say a couple of words to the media.

U.S. Trade Representative Jamieson L. Greer. Yes, I'm happy to do it. We worked very closely with the Malaysian Government during the past few months to agree to an agreement on reciprocal trade.

As you know, the United States has massive trade deficits with many countries in the world. We do have a trade deficit with Malaysia, however, we have engaged in very constructive discussions over the past few months, and we have drafted a substantive, comprehensive agreement on reciprocal trade that will, on the one hand, address our trade deficit and also enhance trade between our two countries.

Malaysia, on—for its part, is going to be modifying its tariffs and nontariff barriers, and we intend to have a lot more trade in ag, in industry, in technology, in services. And we continue to be a great destination for the goods and services that Malaysia produces.

Minister of Investment, Trade, and Industry Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz of Malaysia. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say thank you to both leaders and thank you to Mr. Greer. We had tough negotiations, but I believe that the agreement that we are going to witness today will mark—[inaudible]—when it comes to trade and investment with the U.S.

And I believe that, going forward with the commitment and the joint statement that we make today, we will see further improvements not just in trade relations but also investment—[inaudible].

So I'd like to say thank you, Ambassador Greer. He's been tough, but he's been fair. Thank you.

Okay. That's a very interesting signature. [Laughter]

Look at his signature. How interesting is that? [Laughter] Right? It's very different. It's very good. Very artistic, actually.

Thank you very much, everybody.

Thank you, too. Congratulations. Congratulations, and thank you Jamieson, great job. Appreciate it. Marco, thank you very much.

U.S. Chief of Protocol Monica Crowley. The second agreement, on critical minerals, Mr. President.

Okay.

Minister of Plantation Industries and Commodities Johari Abdul Ghani of Malaysia. We are looking forward—[inaudible]. Thank you.

Right. Okay?

Thank you very much. Now we're going to the ASEAN.

And then, the following day, we—as you know, we meet President Xi of China.
