I think the press is worn out. They've been—look. I think the press has had it. They can barely make it.

Hello. I'll see you back on the plane.

Politico. Politico. [Inaudible]

Hello, how are you?

I feel good.

Brazil-U.S. Trade/Tariffs

[Inaudible]

Yes, I think I want to raise them on Mexico a little bit—[inaudible]. Brazil—Brazil is—we're going to—we're going to make a deal. I think we'll make a deal with Brazil. We get along very well.

We met just before I found out that they turned off my teleprompter at the United Nations. When I walked up, I had no teleprompter. I just shaked—I shook his hand and then got up, and they were introducing me, and I see all the leaders—158 leaders—and I notice there was nothing on my teleprompter.

That wasn't nice, but it worked out well. And I think it was a better speech than if I had it.

Brazil-U.S. Trade

No, I think everything's fair. Look, you know, we have economies, and I have a lot of respect for your President, as you know—a lot of respect for Brazil.

So we'll see. We'll probably work out some deals. I'll leave these guys to work them out. But I think we're going to work out some deals. We have to get——

We have to get certain things.

Wait. Who's that shouting? Who's shouting? Is that you? Don't shout. Don't shout.

Who was—well, first of all, let me just say it's a great honor to be with the President of Brazil. It's a great country. It's a big, beautiful country. And I think they're doing well. I think they're doing very well, from what I understand.

And I think we should be able to make some pretty good deals for both countries. And I'm going to leave that a little bit to Jamieson and Scott and Marco in different ways. Marco—less on the economic side. You could—you could do it very well, but I don't think you'll have to.

But I think we'll have—I think we'll be able to do some pretty good deals. We've been speaking, and I think we'll end up having a very good relationship. We always have had a good relationship. I think it'll continue.

And I am convinced and I said before I came here I was very optimistic to advance the relationship between Brazil and the U.S.

I don't know if President Trump will have time, but I have an agenda to discuss with you. I brought it in writing. I'll give you a copy of our agenda, already in English. If we don't have time to—I don't know if we'll have time to discuss all the issues here, so that's why I brought—I brought it in writing.

Brazil-U.S. Trade/Cambodia/Thailand/Russia/Ukraine

We're going to see. We're dealing on it right now, and we'll be discussing it for a little while, and I think we'll probably come to a conclusion pretty quickly.

We know each other. We know what each other wants. I think we'll come to a conclusion. I think we'll come to a lot of conclusions this week.

This has been a very big week. We concluded a war just now. We just had the official signing. And that was a great honor. That's actually why we came here.

We had Cambodia and Thailand and, really, lots of others. We've done eight, and we're looking to do number nine, which would be Russia and Ukraine.

So we've done a lot of work—[inaudible]——

We've done a lot of good work.

So yes, please—please go ahead.

Former President Jair Messias Bolsonaro of Brazil

Well, I've always liked him. I've always liked him. I feel very badly about what happened to him, really. I've always thought he was a straight shooter, but you know, he's gone through a lot.

Trump's Meeting With President Lula

He's going through a lot.

It's none of your business.

China-U.S. Relations

No, I think we're going to do well with China. I think we're going to have a deal with China.

We meet, as you know, in South Korea with President Xi. I think we're going to have a good deal with China. And they want to make a deal, and we want to make a deal. We've agreed to meet.

And we're going to meet them later in China, and we're going to meet in the U.S., in either Washington or—or at Mar a Lago, Palm Beach.

So no, I think—you know, a lot of these talks—when we meet, we've done a lot of discussions before we meet. We've done discussions with Brazil. So I think we're going to end up having a good deal for both countries.

I think, with China, that's going to happen. And we have other deals—you know, we have Japan, we have South Korea. We have a lot of meetings.

But people seem to be very interested in China. I think we're going to have a——

——a very fair meeting with China.

Yes.

Yes. Right here. Yes.

Brazil-U.S. Trade

Yes, we can do things fast. We move quickly. We're very nimble. We're very nimble.

Not you again. Please no.

Go ahead, please. Yes.

Venezuela

I don't think we're going to be discussing Venezuela. They're not involved with Venezuela. They're not dealing with Venezuela.

You know, I would discuss—if they want to, I'll discuss it. But no, I don't think we're going to be discussing it.

Yes, please. In the back.

Brazil-U.S. Trade

We're going to find out in, probably, 15 minutes. It will be go -—it'll go very quickly. They can offer a lot, and we can offer a lot.

Either—it's good—and it's good for both countries.

Please.

China/Brazil-U.S. Trade

I don't think they should take away anything. I think we're going to have a good deal with China. I think we're going to make a deal. It's going to be great for China, great for us.

I mean, you know, we have a lot of things that are good for both, and we know pretty much—we've been dealing with China. You know, we don't just meet in a vacuum. We've had a lot of discussions—Jamieson, Scott, Howard, Marco—on different things. We've had a lot of discussions with China.

We have with Brazil too. We're not walking into the room, like, with no knowledge. We're walking in with great knowledge. And the meetings don't even have to take that long, frankly. We know pretty much where we are, and we know where they are.

We'll see you later. Thank you very much.
