Okay. It's a little rocky out here.

We're in a very nice airplane, but it's rocky.

Any questions? We had some great economic numbers come out, as you know. We're doing very well economically. A lot of factories are being built all over the country and all of that, but very strong numbers came out.

Go ahead.

Ukraine/Russia

Well, they're going along, and they're going along well. We want to stop people from being killed. Doesn't have much to do with us, but I'd like to see if we can save a lot of souls. A lot of people are being killed. Last month, we had 27,000 people killed in that ridiculous war that should have never happened. It would have never happened if I were president.

I have. Yes. I've spoken to them, and they're doing well. Ukraine has got some difficult little problems. They have some difficult problems. But I think Russia would like to see it end, and I think Ukraine—I know Ukraine would like to see it end.

Ukraine/Corruption Issues

Well, we have a corruption situation going on, which is not helpful.

Well, I said it was going on for 3 years, right? Didn't I say it? For 3 years, I said it. So I was way ahead of schedule. But I think that there's a good chance we can make a deal.

Venezuela/Illegal Immigration

Yes, because we consider Venezuela to be not a very friendly country. They sent millions of people, really, in. Probably, a number in excess of that. And a lot of those people shouldn't be in our country—from jails, from gangs, from drug dealers. From all of the people that came into our country, shouldn't have been in our country. Causing a lot of problems and drugs.

Don't read anything into it.

No, I can't do that.

No, I wouldn't say it went well or badly. It was a phone call. Yes.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

I don't know anything about it.

He said he did not say that, and I believe him a hundred percent.

You're talking about the two men?

No, I—he said he didn't do it. He said he never said that.

He said he didn't do it, so I don't have to make that decision.

Former President Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado of Honduras

Right.

Well, I don't know who you're talking about. Which one?

Well, I was told—I was asked by Honduras, many of the people of Honduras. They said it was a Biden setup. I don't mean Biden. Look, Biden didn't know he was alive, but it was the people that surround the Resolute Desk—surround Biden when he was there, which was about very little time.

And the people of Honduras really thought he was set up, and it was a terrible thing. He was the president of the country, and they basically said he was a drug dealer because he was the President of the country. And they said it was a Biden administration setup. And I looked at the facts, and I agreed with them.

Well, you take a look. I mean, they could say that you take any country you want—if somebody sells drugs in that country, that doesn't mean you arrest the President and put him in jail for the rest of his life.

And that includes this country, okay, to be honest. I mean, if somebody does something wrong, do you put the president of the country in jail?

They said it was a Biden setup. It was a Biden administration setup. And you have a big race going on this week—you know, next week. I think it's going to be a very important race. It'll be interesting to see Honduras. That's what you're talking about, right?

Yes, ma'am.

Russia/Ukraine

What is the second part of your question?

No, I don't have a deadline. I have a deadline when the war is over, and hopefully, the war is going to be over. Twenty-seven thousand people killed last week. Twenty-seven thousand, over the last 3 or 4 weeks. Twenty-seven thousand people killed. That war should end.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

Number one, I don't know that that happened. And Pete said he did not want them—he didn't even know what people were talking about. So we'll look at—we'll look into it. But no, I wouldn't have wanted that, not a second strike. The first strike was very lethal; it was fine. And if there were two people around—but Pete said that didn't happen.

I have great confidence in him.

I don't know. I'm going to find out about it. But Pete said he did not order the death of those two men.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

Very little, because you can see the boats. You can see the drugs in the boats. And each boat is responsible for killing 25,000 Americans. So I—and they're doing an amazing job. And, you know, we're getting—you just look at the numbers. The amount of drugs coming into our country by sea is infinitesimal compared to what it was just a few months ago.

And each—think of this. Each boat, on average, is responsible for the death of 25,000 Americans.

Immigration Policy/U.S. Refugee Admissions

Yes. Yes. People that shouldn't be in our country. That's right.

And that includes Somalians and includes plenty of others.

I think a long time.

We don't want them. We don't want those people. We have enough problems. We don't want those people.

No time limit, but it could be a long time.

We don't want those people. Do you understand that?

You understand that?

Who are you with?

Okay. NewsNation. NewsNation. Great. Great.

Let me just tell you something. We don't want those people. Does that make sense? You know why we don't want them? Because many have been no good, and they shouldn't be in our country.

U.S. Refugee Admissions Policy/Representative Ilhan A. Omar

The people from different countries that are not friendly to us and countries that are out of control themselves—countries like Somalia that have virtually no government, no military, no police. All they do is go around killing each other. Then they come into our country and tell us how to run our country. We don't want them.

You got to talk up.

Well, I guess we gave you 19, right? And there's probably more than that.

No, I—that—I don't think they're all third world, but, in many cases, they are third world. They are not good countries. They are very crime-ridden countries. They are countries that don't do a good job. They are countries that don't register, from the standpoint of success. And we, frankly, don't need their people coming into our country telling us what to do.

And I'm talking about, like, Somalia, where you have a Congressman goes around telling everybody about our Constitution, and yet she supposedly came into our country by marrying her brother. Well, if that's true, she shouldn't be a Congressman, and we should throw her the hell out of our country.

You have a problem with it?

You know what? I think there's something wrong with him. Anybody that would do what he did, anybody that would allow those people into his State and pay billions of dollars out to Somalia—we give billions of dollars to Somalia. It's not even a country because it doesn't function like a country. It's got a name, but it doesn't function like a country.

Yes, there's something wrong with Walz.

Immigration Reform/Naturalized U.S. Citizens

You mean people that are in here that shouldn't be here?

Well, we'll see. I mean, yes, if we have criminals that came into our country and they were naturalized, maybe through Biden or somebody that didn't know what they were doing. If I have the power to do it—I'm not sure that I do, but if I do, I would denaturalize. Absolutely.

Do you have a question? Yes.

Immigration Reform/Former President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.

It means get people out that are in our country. Get them out of here. I want to get them out. We got a lot of people in our country that shouldn't be here, and they came in through Biden.

And he was the worst president in the history of our country, but the single biggest thing he did was allow millions—the worst—allow millions of people into our country that shouldn't be here—drug dealers. Prisons were opened up and allowed to come into our country. You take a look at the people that were allowed to come into our country.

We're paying a big price for it, and we will for years to come, including the recent killer of two wonderful National Guardspeople. And I'll tell you what: That animal should not have been allowed to come into our country.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

Shooting of West Virginia National Guard Members in the District of Columbia

I have spoken to both families. Well, I mean, I can give you an update. They're devastated. Does that make sense to you?

They're devastated.

Well, as you know, the one is no longer with us, and Andrew is fighting for his life. And his parents are unbelievably great people, highly religious people. And they're praying, and they want everybody to pray for Andrew. And he has a chance to make it, but he is—I mean, his mother and father, they were so unbelievable. They were so positive. From West Virginia. Great state.

I spoke with Sarah's parents too, and the only thing I can say: They were devastated.

They can't even believe it could happen.

Yes, I do.

I do. I've already suggested it. I said, "When you're ready"—because that's a tough thing—"come to the White House. We're going to honor Sarah." And likewise, with Andrew, recover or not, we're going to honor.

Russia/Ukraine/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

And then, on that, is that meeting——

Sometime next week.

No.

Sometime next week.

Health Insurance Reforms/Prescription Drug Costs

Yes. You know, one of the reasons that health care can work is because of what I just did with favored nations. You're going to have drug prices coming down 500, 600, 700 percent because of me.

In other words, we're going to have the lowest drug prices—tied for the lowest drug prices anywhere in the world. It's called favored nations. And you don't talk about it. It's probably the biggest thing to happen in medicine in the last hundred years, and it can have a huge impact, positive impact on pricing for health care.

Federal Reserve System Leadership

I know who I'm going to pick, yes.

I'm not telling you. We'll be announcing it.

Thank you very much, everybody. And—this is a rocky flight.

We're going to get out of here before something happens.

They asked about my MRI. MRIs are very—you know.

The President's Health

Governor Walz? You mean the incompetent Governor Walz?

So, if they want to release it, it's okay with me to release it. It's perfect.

It's like my phone call where I got impeached. It's absolutely perfect. So, if you want to hear about it or if you want to release it—do you want to have it released, NewsNation?

Failing NewsNation.

NewsNation is doing lousy, by the way. But if you want to have it released, I'll release it. Absolutely.

For what? Releasing?

I have no idea. It was just an MRI. What part of the body? It wasn't the brain, because I took a cognitive test, and I aced it. I got a perfect mark, which you would be incapable of doing.

Goodbye, everybody. You too.
