Well, this is very exciting, because, again, we're bringing drug prices down to levels nobody ever thought was possible. Tremendous cuts—200 percent, 300 percent, 500 percent, 700 percent, and even more than that.

So today I'm thrilled to announce that the two world's largest pharmaceutical manufacturers, Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk, have agreed to offer their most popular GLP–1 weight-loss drug—I call it the "fat drug," remember?—at drastic discounts.

They're very effective drugs, and so far, I've never heard anything bad about them. I only hear good about them. It's pretty—is there anything bad about them, Bobby? I don't know—I haven't heard anything at all. [Laughter] Someday, maybe it'll come out, which we'll notify you immediately. But so far, I haven't heard that. Including the drugs known as Zepbound and Wegovy, often called Ozempic.

This is a triumph for American patients that will save lives and improve the health of millions and millions of Americans. Amazing thing. They are amazing.

I want to thank Eli Lilly CEO David Ricks, a friend of mine—we've worked long and hard; he and I got this whole thing started in a way—and Novo Nordisk CEO Mike Doustdar for joining us today.

Great, talented people. They make a lot of money. I looked at the money. But they're entitled to the money because the companies are doing very well.

Along with Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Secretary Howard Lutnick. Do you take any of this stuff, Howard?

CMS Administrator Mehmet Oz. He doesn't take it.

Food and Drug Administrator [Administration; White House correction] Commissioner Marty Makary. And Director of Medicare Chris Klomp.

And we have Steve. Where's Steve? Is he here? Head of public relations for the White House. He's taking it.

The United States is just 4 percent of the world's population and consumes only 13 percent of all prescription drugs, yet pharmaceutical companies make 75 percent of their profits from the American customer. I would say that's not so good, right? It's not exactly great.

To address this chronic unfairness, I signed an Executive order earlier this year instructing my administration to do everything in our power to implement most-favored-nations drug pricing, something that has been helped greatly by tariffs, because when nations refuse to do it—we should have put this in the case yesterday—I just say, "Well, if you're not going to do it, we're going to charge you a like amount of tariffs." And they immediately say, "We'll do it." Which means that Americans should pay no more than the lowest price offered anywhere in the world.

So that—you've heard for years the disparity where you'll pay $150 for a pill in New York and you'll pay $10 for a pill in London. Now you're going to pay $20, both, because the world is a little bit bigger than the U.S. So it goes up that way. But you'll pay $20 and $20. A tremendous advantage to our country, after years of being abused by the world system.

Already, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, and EMD Serono have agreed to drastically lower their prices for American patients. And today, Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk are joining the phenomenal list of the most exciting announcements.

I mean, nobody has ever had announcements like—and this has to do with other pharmaceutical products also, but we're covering this today because it's such a big seller. I guess it's the number-one selling thing there is today.

These are two companies that—behind the groundbreaking weight loss drugs that have helped millions of Americans struggling with obesity live better, longer lives, everything else—these are the two companies that really broke ground.

Until now, neither of these two popular drugs have been covered by Medicare for weight loss, and they've only rarely been covered by Medicaid.

They've often cost consumers more than a thousand dollars per month, and some a lot more than that. Americans have been spending as much as 520-percent more for Zepbound and 1,400-percent more for Wegovy than patients in Europe. Think of that. Fourteen-hundred-percent more than a patient in Europe for the exact same box.

And that ends starting today. The other countries are not happy with us. I don't think they like me too much, Bobby, but that's okay.

Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk are committing to offer Zepbound and Wegovy at most-favored-nations rates for American patients. This will slash the cost of Wegovy from $1,350 a month to, ultimately, $250 a month. $1,350 to $250. Did I do a good job?

They don't write about it, you know. They like to not write these things. And reduce—you think anybody—you think Biden could have done this? I don't think so.

And reduce the monthly cost of Zepbound from $1,080 to $346.

In addition, they're both committing that future GLP–1 weight loss drugs taken orally, which are currently under development, will be sold at no more than $149 per month. It's a massive—think of that. You go from $1,300 to $149 a month. We anticipate these new versions will be coming out in a very short period of time.

All of these drugs will be available directly to the consumer at TrumpRx.gov. Trump—they wanted to use my name. Trump—it better be good. TrumpRx.gov. And I think it's turning out to be pretty amazing, right, Oz?

Just as significantly, Medicare and Medicaid will finally cover the cost of these weight loss drugs for millions of patients suffering from obesity. Copays for Medicare patients will be as low as $50. This is tremendous savings. I mean, now you're talking about from $1,350 to $50. This is tremendous news for the American seniors.

And you all remember when I had one-eighth of 1 percent for the year. I cut it one-eighth, and I was so thrilled, but now we're cutting it 1,000 percent, 1,200 percent. Nobody has ever seen a thing like this. Nobody else could have done it, but I say that modestly.

In addition—you think it was easy dealing with these people? It wasn't. [Laughter] You think it was easy saying, "Your drug, Mr. Eli Lilly, that was selling for $1,300 is going to be sold for $250"?

You know the amazing thing? Their stocks all went up. I mean, these guys are—they're fantastic. Because it's going to equalize the world. The world is a bigger place, and it's going to equalize. I was a little surprised to see that, but I'm happy about it.

In addition, Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk have agreed to provide all of their other medications to Medicaid at most-favored-nations prices. Most favored nations, meaning that you will pay the lowest price anywhere in the world. That's what you're going to pay. Whereas, before, they paid low prices, and we paid, you know, thousands of percentile ahead more. And to sell these drugs to all consumers at deeply discounted prices via TrumpRx.com.

When is TrumpRx.com opening?

Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Mehmet Oz. It's—the site is open. It will launch in terms of giving people prices before the end of the year.

Okay. Got to make sure it's successful. It's got my name on it. I don't want to be like so many others. I don't want to be like the train they're building in California—[laughter]—okay?—which has about a 15,000 percent cost overrun, or the Obama—the beautiful Obama building that he's building in Chicago for the museum, which is now shuttered up and dead. They got it up, and they couldn't finish. It's about, would you say, five years behind schedule? And about 2,000 percent over budget. Then he tells us how to run Medicaid.

Many of the most widely used drugs will be available for 60-percent off or even more than that. In addition, all new medications introduced by Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk to the American market will be sold at the heavily reduced most favored nations price. Most favored nations price, that's the best, because they have been thousands of percents lower than what we were selling, in many cases.

Furthermore, Eli Lilly is investing $27 billion—that's all?—and Novo Nordisk will invest $10 billion—that's all? [Laughter] That's peanuts—in the United States to re-shore and do a big domestic manufacturing job in the facilities. They're going to spend—so, Eli Lilly will spend $27 billion. Novo is spending $10 billion in the United States. So they're building new plants and equipment.

That's part of what will be $20- or $21 trillion this year. There's never been anything like it. I know nobody talks about it, but there's never been anything like—I would say, you would say that there's never been anything like this ever in—whether it's China or Europe or—you could take all of Europe; there's never been anything like this.

So we're already past $17 trillion. We're going to be—I think by the time the year closes out, we'll have investments of over $21 trillion, based off the way we're going. And by the way, tariffs are very important. Without tariffs, perhaps it could be a little bit different, to put it mildly. Tariffs are so important.

The decision in the Supreme Court would be devastating to our country if we got a negative—devastating if we got a negative decision.

But this is a great day for American health and health care and for all of American patients. These are things that are miracles, to have this happen. And they're—you know, we're bringing all our medicines—again, because of tariffs, we're bringing all our medicines. If you remember where, during COVID, we made almost no medicine here. We had to go to China, we had to go to Ireland, we had to go to other places—U.K.—to get our medicine—we didn't make it here. Now we're making it—we'll soon be making it all here, again, because of tariffs—and my election, but because of tariffs much more.

For years, politicians have talked about making health care affordable, but my administration is actually doing it. Americans deserve the best health care in the world, and we're now getting the best health care at the lowest price.

So I'd like to ask somebody who's doing a fantastic job, Secretary Kennedy, to say a few words, followed by Dr. Oz, Dr. [Director; White House correction] Klomp, and then Eli Lilly CEO David Ricks and Novo Nordisk CEO Mike Doustdar. These are incredible stars in that business. I had it—like, Doustdar is a big star. [Laughter] And I can tell you that David Ricks is one of the hottest people in the world in business, but the business that he's in is pharmaceutical. And the job he's done with Eli Lilly is incredible. Both of these gentlemen, they're—they really are stars in the truest sense.

And it's an honor to have you in the White House. And go to it, Bobby.

Do you think they are smarter than you?

Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Deputy Administrator and Director of Medicare Christopher Klomp. No. [Laughter] Don't get me in trouble.

He doesn't really mean that. He's being modest, I promise you. But——

Eli Lilly and Co. Chair and Chief Executive Officer David A. Ricks. You did.

He did. But anybody could do that, they're entitled. But now it's down to what it should be.

So, again, thank you for your vision, for your commitment. And thank you to all the CEOs and all of my team for making this historic agreement happen.

And, Bobby, you haven't changed your view on Tylenol for women that are pregnant. Is that——

Administrator Oz. So we're going to go through some of the deal points, but it does make itself clear that the real stake here is the forgotten man.

Trump, I believe you won the election because you remember the forgotten man. You speak to them. They hear you. They listen to you. And he connects well because he actually does things that materially change their lives.

These numbers to my side here, it's just—Administrator Makary, who's been instrumental in this process as well. $1,350 baseline. Chris Klomp will go through the numbers, but just focus on that $245, which he—which he's going to point you to. And Chris Klomp has been an unbelievable leader, an innovator, who's—you've heard his name before. He's spoken here before. But he is continuing to change the face of—of CMS. And I love the fact that, with his leadership, we're bringing in a lot of wonderful people in.

Inma Hernandez has been mentioned, John Brooks as well, and many others, including Beth Kelley, who runs the legal issues around these issues, because these guys are barracudas, Mr. President. They will take you down, slice you in little bits. And that—[laughter]—Howard has been there. It's no longer happening. You've got sharp folks. We're open for business. It's a generational opportunity to serve, and people are showing up. God bless you.

Let me introduce now Chris Klomp, who is—just makes my life easier every day. I'm so proud of him.

Deputy Administrator Klomp. All great deals are rooted in principles. We've talked about this before, and today we're announcing another truly great deal. I love this deal, and it's rooted in the principle of potential.

This is about unlocking the full potential of every American—the grandmother, the grandfather, the father, the son—by unlocking access to affordable, lifesaving medications that make a meaningful difference in their lives when they need them most. That's what today delivers. It's a deal built on principle for people, for the American people, and backed by policy that works.

On TrumpRx, the average price of injectables and orals will start at $350 on average. That's compared to roughly $500 today. And that will trend down to, you guessed it, the same $245 a month over the next 24 months. That is one-fifth of the list price. It is one-half of the best price in the United States today.

We're hoping, Mr. President, that your friend who has to travel to England to afford these drugs will no longer need to do so and can come and do it in the United States.

I'll also just mention that the $149 is $1 less than what you asked us to achieve.

That's true. [Laughter]

Deputy Administrator Klomp. Just going to make sure that's clear. [Laughter]

So I want to highlight two other really important points that make me love this deal so very much. First, this isn't about spending more. It's about spending smarter. The savings from the diabetes drug price reductions are being used in a cost-neutral way to fund the new indications for taxpayers. That's amazing. And that happens inside of that same 24-month period. It's cost neutral. We're spending the money more wisely.

But second, this isn't just about lower drug prices for Americans, though it does do that. But together, with physical activity, with healthy eating and diet and, where appropriate, the use of breakthrough GLP–1s, the real return on investment is healthier Americans—lower chronic disease; lower costs, we estimate by tens of billions of dollars a year; and most importantly, higher productivity.

Today is about freeing Americans from the weight, literally and figuratively, that holds us back. It's about unlocking the potential of every citizen to live fully, to contribute fully, and to find joy in their health.

We cannot reach our full potential as a nation if we do not reach our full potential as individuals. And we cannot reach our full potential as individuals if we are not healthy.

Thanks to Nova and Lily for showing up so constructively over the last several months to make this possible. In particular, thanks to you, Mr. President, for again demonstrating that you fight for every American, this time for potential.

It's now my sincere pleasure to first introduce Dave Ricks from Lilly and then Mike Doustdar from Nova.

So we had a little bit of an interruption. Sorry for that. And I think we can just begin again with Eli Lilly.

Nine years ago, when I started this job, I promised to read every letter a patient sent me. And back then, there was hope for new treatments, but a lot of complaints about insulin pricing. So, while we did a number of things ourself, it wasn't actually until I spoke to the President—this is in your first term—and you ordered the HHS team to work with us to really solve that problem.

We prioritized it. We launched our—a copy of our own medicine at 90-percent off, and then we capped the price of insulin for Medicare patients at $35.

And Biden tried to take credit for it.

And they stood up and they said what a great job they did. No, that was done by Trump and Lilly.

But most importantly, it empowers people to take control of their own health, to eat well, to exercise, of course avoid harmful substances, and where appropriate, in consultation with your doctor, access affordable, now, obesity medications that are really a breakthrough.

And we believe that when America is healthy, America is strong. And, at Lilly, our goal is the same here: to invest in science, invest in our country, deliver breakthrough medicines, and reduce and then prevent chronic disease, all to make our country strong for generations to come.

So thank you.

Thank you, David——

And before we—is Tom Emmer—we have one of our great leaders here. Is—is he in the room?

How about Mrs. Emmer joining us? Okay? The real boss of the family.

She's the real boss, right?

Rep. Emmer. Yes, she is.

Okay, please.

Thank you so much.

Thank you very much. Thank you.

Anybody else? Just say a couple words, Marty, please.

Commissioner of Food and Drugs Martin A. Makary. Thank you, Mr. President. This is an amazing day because people talk about different ways to finance the broken health care system. This is fixing the broken health care system by dealing with two root causes: the price of goods and services, something hardly anyone talks about, and the health of the population.

So today the FDA is announcing, as part of its new National Priority Voucher program that both Lilly and Novo Nordisk will be receiving a voucher for a priority review, because they're doing something in this administration's national priority interest: lowering the price of drugs to make them affordable, in line with the President's mission, and domestic manufacturing and addressing a public health need.

This is—these are two of six products that we are announcing today. Treatments for cancer that are unbelievable. They are incredibly promising. A rectal cancer treatment that has melted away tumors with no need for surgery or chemo or radiation.

We're interested in therapies that reduce downstream health care utilization. They'll be getting a voucher for a review by the FDA in weeks instead of a year. So we're serious. We're doing everything we can to incentivize this. So I think this is not appreciated enough, because the fastest area of health care spending growth is drug price spending growth.

And so we're seeing a—lowering health care drug prices as a vehicle to make insurance more affordable—private insurance, Medicaid more affordable, Medicare more affordable—and health care in general more affordable.

Thank you, Mr. President.

Thank you, Marty, very much.

Any questions, please?

Tariffs/China-U.S. Trade

Well, I'd rather discuss that later. I hope we're going to win that case. I think it's one of the most important cases in the history of our country.

So much evolves around tariffs as a defensive mechanism for our country, as national security for our country. So I don't want to really discuss a round two. This is so important. If you look at China—and I covered this yesterday—but if you look at China, by putting a large hundred-percent tariff over and above the tariffs they already paid, they came to the table, they talked. We made a wonderful deal for everybody. Our farmers, as you know, with the soybeans at levels that nobody has ever seen before.

We were able to make phenomenal deals. If we didn't have the tariffs, we wouldn't have been able to do that. So we thought we did very well yesterday. We hope that we did. I think it would be devastating for our country, but I also think that we'll have to develop a game-two plan.

We'll see what happens. Most people tell me we did very well, legally.

Tariffs/Critical Minerals/Domestic Manufacturing Investment/The President's Foreign Policy/Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations

No. No, we're going to wait——

This is the best one, and we can do other things, but they're slow by comparison. You know, it's that—like, as an example, with the hundred percent, I was able to do it instantaneously when we were threatened by the rare earths, as you know, the magnets. And I did it instantaneously. It was a matter of seconds, and it was a matter of seconds that I got a phone call, "Let's work this out."

We would've had not nearly the defense that we had. It—it would be a shame. It would be—it would be somewhat catastrophic for our country, I have to be honest with you. I don't want to get too much involved. But what we've done—you know, we're taking in hundreds of trillions of dollars. If you take a look at the numbers we have, we're at $17 trillion right now. We're going to be at $21 trillion—about $21 trillion by the time I finish my first year.

Biden—as an example, the Biden administration was at less than a trillion for 4 years. We're going to be at $21 trillion for—for 1 year. In the history of the world, there's never been a country that's done that. Not China, not the U.S., not anybody. And a lot of that is because of the tariffs and the fact that the President is a competent President that knows how to use them.

And I use them for national defense. I ended—of the eight wars I ended, I would say five or six were ended because of tariffs.

I'll give you an example. If you take a look at India and Pakistan, they started to fight. They're two nuclear nations. They were shooting each other. Eight planes were shot down. There was seven, now it was eight, because the one that was sort of shot down is now abandoned, and eight planes were shot down.

And I said, "Listen, if you guys are going to fight, I'm going to put tariffs on you." And they both went—you know, they were not happy about that. And within 24 hours, I settled the war. If I didn't have tariffs, I wouldn't have been able to settle that war.

So it's great national defense, and you have to be quick moving. You can't wait around for months and months while you're doing studies and you're doing all of this, or—or go back to Congress?

Look at Congress. We can't even get a continuation from Congress. Think of that. How would you like to have to go back to Congress to—you have to do this spur of the moment. Because, just so you understand, we're here at spur of the moment. You know, other countries have used tariffs to—absolutely, they would've destroyed us. If I didn't come along, our country would be destroyed right now.

The tariffs have—the tariffs have made us rich. In terms of national security, they've made us secure. And, you know, if you have economic strength, that's also—if you have a lack of economic strength, that's national security also.

But we have great national security because of those tariffs. So I think it would be devastating if we lost that ruling.

U.S. Tariff Policy/Trade Negotiations

I don't want to talk about it. I'm going to hope that we win. I can't imagine that anybody would do that kind of devastation to our country.

You know, we have to pay back trillions of dollars. We've taken in trillions. We haven't taken in billions. We've taken in trillions of dollars.

We've made trade deals based on that that give us—as an example, European Union, $950 billion; Japan, $650 billion; South Korea, $350 billion. Without this, we're not talking about that kind of money.

And they're okay. They're satisfied. They love us. I just left. They all love us. So it's not like we're such bad people. But they were doing it to us until I came along. Now they don't do it to us. We do it to them a little bit.

But if they took this away, we would be defenseless against tariffs from other countries.

Well, I'll ask Oz or—or Bobby that question. Would be very—it's a good question.

Deputy Administrator Klomp. Absolutely. Many Americans receive their insurance through the commercial markets. The companies have committed to ensure that, at worst, prices are at MFN on GLP–1s and are committed to continue to negotiate those prices down based on volume, just as they do in any other instance.

Another really interesting thing we're seeing, though, is that commercial plans and PBMs increasingly are enabling access for their beneficiaries, their patients to make purchases in the cash market and then still receive coverage under their accumulators and their deductibles.

Deputy Administrator Klomp. And so, we're building that capacity.

Absolutely. TrumpRx is being built to enable just that behavior and drive transparency in the process.

Weight-Loss Drugs

And also, about the informed consent on side effects, there are lawsuits against these companies that some people experienced damage to their gut health, vision loss, and other potentially serious side effects there. So how will we ensure Americans are able to make——

Yes.

Well, I'll let them speak about the side effects, but I've heard about very little side effects with respect to these drugs. I mean, it's all positive, and that's usually not the case. I mean, usually you hear bad things. You see these crazy commercials on television where they tell you 15 different things that can go wrong, and then you're supposed to buy it. Very few.

But I'll let you handle that.

Administrator Oz. At a high level, one in three people who can hear my voice are eligible for these medications. That's the magnitude of impact. And we believe, just to reemphasize, we will actually save the American taxpayer money if people use these drugs appropriately for the duration for which they're indicated.

There are always going to be side effects of anything strong enough to help you is strong enough to hurt you. The question is: Is the tradeoff worth it? We know the ravaging risks of obesity and all downstream issues ranging from diabetes and hypertension to renal failure or dementia, heart disease, my specialty.

But I'll ask Dave Ricks from Lilly to maybe start off, because he can give an honest appraisal of potential risks people should be aware of. There's no free cheese.

Tariffs/Consumer Costs/Manufacturing Investment/U.S. Automobile Industry

Well, it is. It's coming in because they've charged us. You know, those same countries that you talk about are charging us massive amounts of money.

If you look at the tariffs over the years that were put on our heads, we—there's a reason we're $38 trillion owed. Now that money is going to start coming down.

But we had Presidents that didn't know how to use tariffs. We had Presidents that had no understanding of business.

But if you take a look at what's happened to us, every country charged us tariffs. China, the European Union was brutal. They charged us tariffs. Not only tariffs, they charged us tariffs and we couldn't sell cars there. We couldn't sell our product. They didn't want our agriculture. They didn't want our cars. Now they're taking our cars, and now they're taking our agriculture.

You know, far more than money, it's—it really is a defensive mechanism. If we didn't have tariffs, we would be unable to defend ourself.

I think—no, I don't agree. I think that they might be paying something, but when you take the overall impact, the Americans are—are gaining tremendously. They're gaining through national security—look, I'm ending war because of these tariffs. Americans would have to fight in some of these wars. They're gaining in national security. They're gaining in economics. They're gaining in so many different ways. And they're gaining in self-respect for our own country.

We—other countries used to laugh at us. They would charge us tariffs. Japan was charging us massive tariffs, and yet they wouldn't allow our cars to be sold in Japan. But they were selling 9 million cars here, but they wouldn't allow one car—not one car was sold in Japan. They don't laugh at us anymore. This is really a matter of—this is national security.

And by the way, going bankrupt is national security. You know, our country was really in trouble, going bankrupt. And the difference between going bankrupt and thriving, that's also national security.

When you go bankrupt, when you don't have any money, you have no national security. And we are thriving. I mean, all this money coming into our country that I told you about, the $17 trillion, as of now, but it will—it's going up rapidly.

I was in Japan, and we have—Toyota is coming in with $10 billion to build plants, operated by Americans, but building plants all over the United States. Well, they left. They took our plants. They sold cars in here without tariffs. They sold cars. We didn't charge them anything.

They destroyed our auto industry. We lost 50 percent—54 percent of our auto industry to other—we used to—if you go back into the thirties and forties, we had a hundred percent of the automobile business. Then it started getting chopped away.

But Mexico, Canada, many countries—I mean, Canada fought us very hard. The—the ones that don't want us to win are foreign countries that we are able now to do very well with. Those are the ones that fight it. Those and maybe people that hate our country.

I think it's the most important case maybe in the history of our country.

Consumer Prices

Right.

Right.

That's right.

Yes.

Thank you very much. And I read—it's not so much a question. It's a statement. And I would have made the statement, but you—we have a lot of things happening, so I wouldn't necessarily have made it right now.

So Walmart, to me—you know, that's AAA, came out that—nobody going to influence them; I don't know them—but they just came out with a very powerful statement—they've done it for many years—that under the Biden administration, Thanksgiving meal—a Thanksgiving meal with all the trimmings cost 25-percent more. In other words, our Thanksgiving, this year coming up, will cost 25-percent less than Sleepy Joe Biden's.

Now, to me, that's better than anything there is. That's better than a poll. That's—they've got everything included, from the trimmings and from the turkey and from everything. A lot of different items. It's 25-percent less this year than it was last year when he was so-called in charge.

He wasn't in charge. The people around the desk were in charge. The autopen was in charge. That is a big—that is a big factor.

And I was angry last night with the Republicans. I say: "You don't talk about this stuff. Nobody talks about it." You know, I rely on a question from a reporter to get that out. We should be talking about it because they talk about affordability. They don't have affordability.

We had the highest inflation in the history of our country under Biden. We had high gasoline prices at 4½, 5 dollars a gallon. They're going to be hitting $2 a gallon with me with. What—they're getting close to $2 a gallon. And when gasoline goes down and energy goes down, everything else follows.

What the Democrats do is they lie. We are the ones that have done great on affordability. They've done horribly on affordability. The only thing is they go out and they took—they take commercials how under the Democrats you have affordability. It's just the opposite.

We have much lower prices than they do. And we only have one thing—beef—because the cattle ranchers are doing well. We're going to bring the beef prices down, and they understand that, even if we have to help them out. But the beef also is not a big difference.

But every price is down. The biggest price is energy. We're at almost $2 for gasoline. And you take a look at where—they were at 4½, 5 dollars for gasoline. And when gasoline and energy comes down, everything else follows.

And I was so happy. Last night I said—I made a speech and then I get off the stage. I said, I feel like going up and saying it, because I have a lot of respect for Walmart, and nobody is influencing Walmart. They came out and they said, "Trump's Thanksgiving dinner, same things, is 25-percent less than Biden's."

And we are the affordability, when we are the ones that have done a great job in affordability, not the Democrats. And yet we just lost a couple of elections. They were very Democrat areas. Maybe won't be for long—they weren't very Democrat when I ran a year ago, because I did well in those areas.

But we just lost an election, they said, based on affordability. It's a con job by the Democrats. The Democrats are only good at con and cheating on elections.

Thank you for the question.

India-U.S. Relations

Say it?

Great. He's great. It's going good. He stopped—largely, he stopped buying oil from Russia.

And he's a friend of mine, and we speak, and he wants me to go there. And I'll—we'll figure that out. I'll go.

I had a great trip there with Prime Minister Modi. He's a great man. And I'll be going.

Yes.

Wait. Go ahead, please.

It could be, yes.

Pharmaceutical Industry Consolidation

Well, I don't know. Do you want—do you want to talk about that? I mean, I'd like to hear it.

And look, I hope New York does well. That's all I can say. I love New York. I grew up in New York. I did well in New York. Always did well. And I hope New York does well. That's all.

ICE raids? Well, you want to get criminals out. If they're criminals, we want to get them out. Ideally, we wouldn't have to do them because he'll send the criminals out himself. But that seems to be unlikely.

No, we have to get criminals out. You know, millions of people were let into our country from prisons and from mental institutions and drug dealers—a lot of drug dealers and murderers—11,888 murderers. Fifty percent of them committed more than one murder. We want to get them out. So, whether they're in New York or anywhere else, we want to get them out.

We've created a great place in Washington. All of you know—you see the difference between what it was now and what it was a year ago under Biden. It was a—it was a death trap, and now it's—you know, people walk down the street, they have dinner, and the restaurants are booming.

Washington, DC, is great. I will tell you—Memphis is doing really well too. You're hearing those reports. It's—companies were going to move out; they're not going to move out anymore. We've done a great job, and we've only been there for 4 weeks.

So we've done a great job with that. But they have killers in New York. We want to get them out.

If they have murderers, if they have people from jails that they allowed out of their jails in order to save a lot of money, we want them out of here. We want to put them back in their jails, not our jails.

Privatization of Government Services/Air Traffic Control System

I think of privatizing a lot of things. But generally speaking, you know, you have Government, and a lot of people don't like privatizing. But some things, they really do, they work out better privatized.

But it is Government, and sometimes Government can be better. It's something a lot of people talk about.

Well, we're going do it a lot better too, because we're going to buy a new system. It's under bid right now. Bid about four different companies, all top of the line, like these two great companies, except, you know, in a different—slightly different field.

And the air traffic control equipment is 45 years old. Buttigieg spent billions of dollars trying to fix it and didn't even use the right wire. You're hooking up glass into copper, and you can't do that. You know, most—if they went to a reasonably good school, they'd find out you can't hook glass into copper. And they spent billions of dollars, and it was—actually made the system much worse.

We're going to get rid of the entire system, put a brandnew system in. It will be expensive, but we'll have the best air control system, meaning, you know, the control towers. They'll be stripped down, down to the bone, and brandnew equipment is being installed.

And we'll give out that—it's a big contract. We'll give out that contract over the next 6 weeks.

Lapse in Federal Government Appropriations

Yes.

No, that's why they're cutting.

Yes. Fair question. Sean Duffy announced they're cutting, in certain areas, 10 percent, and they want to make sure it's a hundred percent safe. That's why they're doing it.

Election Security/Border Security/Senate Use of the Filibuster/Israel/Iran

In what way?

Well, I think it's time for them to end the filibuster and just put everybody back to work. Vote in voter ID. Vote in no mail-in voting except for military—faraway military and people that are very sick. No—I'd like to see 1-day voting. I'd like to see not 65 days of voting from all over the place. No, I'd like to clean up the elections.

The border, we've done a great job. We have a great, strong border now. But I'd like to see new rules on immigration that could be fair and good, you know. But rules they're never going to get——

Rules that they're never going to get. There's so many things we could put in, including tax cuts that we could get, and we could do it all ourselves. But you—to do that, you have to end the filibuster.

The filibuster is—and they'll do it too. They'll immediately do it. You know, they're going to—what they're going to do is—what the Democrats will do is they're going to make Puerto Rico a State. They're going to make DC a State. They're going to pack the court. They're going to end up with more electoral votes. They're going to end up with four Senators because of the two States. And they're going to do this a hundred percent. They would've done it, except Manchin and Sinema got in their way. They would've done it.

So, if they're going to do it, I would do it. I would do it before them. It's a little like Israel——

It's a little like Israel. Israel attacked first. That attack was very, very powerful. I was very much in charge of that.

When Israel attacked Iran first, that was—that was a great day for Israel because that attack did more damage than the rest of them put together.

What I'd like to see is I'd like to see voter ID. I'd like to—who wouldn't approve voter ID? The Democrats. Why wouldn't they approve it? Because they cheat. There's only one reason not—we don't have voter identification, and we should have it.

If we got rid of the filibuster, in one day you'd have voter identification. The only reason they don't want it is because they cheat.

Health Insurance Exchanges

Right.

Well, I don't weigh in, but we're looking at all of that right now. We're looking at all of it. There are a lot of great ideas out there, including for health care, because Obamacare is a disaster.

The Obamacare premium is going to go up 17 or 18 percent. And that's not my fault. I didn't want Obamacare. That's the fault of the people that put it in, the Democrats. And now they want it subsidized further.

But you know, where you take it from them, you take it from a lot of other people. We could have much better health care—much better health care—at a much lower price.

Prescription Drug Costs

About what?

Oh, no, everybody is involved. And we're going to get low pricing from—this is every—all companies are being involved. We are now going to have—with all drugs, the lowest price anywhere in the world, that's the price we're going to have.

That's called favored nations. We were stupid nations before. We paid 10 times more, sometimes 15 times more than they were paying in Europe and other places. So that was really stupid.

Yes, please.

Prescription Drug Costs

Well, then we're going to match them because we're—as far as I'm concerned, we're at favored nations. If Europe is playing less—paying less, then—now, there could be other reasons. There could be a distribution, et cetera, et cetera; it's harder to get to.

But outside of, you know, pretty minor things, this is favored nations. We are going to be paying the lowest price in the world, outside of some nations that are stone-cold bankrupt, have no money, and people make contributions of medicines to those nations, including us. We're going to have the lowest prices anywhere in the world. And your drug prices will go down 600, 700, 800 percent. And I'll be given no credit for it, because I never get credit for anything. But nobody else could have done this.

Thank you very much, everybody.

I think she's an evil woman. I'm glad she's retiring. I think she did the country a great service by retiring. I think she was a tremendous liability for the country.

I thought she was an evil woman who did a poor job, who cost the country a lot in damages and in reputation. I thought she was terrible.

Thank you very much. Thank you.
