Well, thank you very much, and thank you for being here as we take a very vital action to protect and defend American farmers and reduce prices for the American consumers. And we've done that in so many different fields, and this is a little bit of a different field, but we're bringing prices way down.

We inherited a total mess from the Biden administration—the highest inflation in the country's history and very, very high prices. And prices are coming down, and they were very, very far down on energy. Energy has come—in fact, we hit a very important number, a sacred number. We had three States in the last 2 days reported by our energy group, a group of very strong energy people, who said we hit $1.99 a gallon in three different States. And that's an amazing accomplishment, because the gasoline prices are coming down. When gasoline comes down, everything—it's such a big category that when gasoline comes down, sort of everything sort of follows.

But we inherited a mess. Affordability—but you can call it affordability or anything you want, but the Democrats caused the affordability problem, and we're the ones that are fixing it. So it's a very simple statement. They caused it. We're fixing it.

And they have a tendency to just say, "This election is based on affordability," and nobody questions them, John, you know? Nobody says, "Oh, well, what do you mean by that?" But they just say the word. They never say anything else because they caused the problem. But we're fixing the problem.

And we're pleased to be joined today by many of the wonderful members of the farming community, as well as the Secretary of Agriculture, Brooke Rollins. Brooke, thank you.

I'm delighted to announce this afternoon that the United States will be taking a small portion of the hundreds of billions of dollars we receive in tariffs. We are making a lot of money from countries that took advantage of us for years. They took advantage of us like nobody has ever seen. Our deficits are way down because of tariffs. I guess because of the election, because without the election, you wouldn't have tariffs. You'd be sitting here losing your shirt.

But we're taking in billions. We're really taking in trillions of dollars, if you think about it, Scott, because the real numbers, you know, when you think of all the money being poured into the country for new auto plants and all of the other things, AI.

So what we're doing is, we're taking a relatively small portion of that, and we're going to be giving and providing it to the farmers in economic assistance. And we love our farmers. And as you know, the farmers like me, because, you know, based on voting trends—you could call it voting trends or anything else, but they're great people. They're the backbone of our country.

So we're going to use that money to provide $12 billion in economic assistance to American farmers. Twelve billion dollars is a lot of money, Meryl. What do you think? Peanuts for you, though, right? [Laughter] She's a farmer of rice.

This release will—this relief will provide much-needed certainty to farmers as they get this year's harvest to market and look ahead to next year's crops. And it'll help them continue their efforts to lower food prices for American families.

And again, we inherited something that—we inherited the worst inflation in the history of our country, and we're taking care of it.

Farmers are an indispensable national asset, part of the backbone of America. I've always felt it so strongly. They're so important. Unfortunately, under Sleepy Joe Biden—he's a sleepy guy—our farmers were crushed by the worst inflation in modern history and crippling restrictions on energy, water, and countless other necessities for farmers. And what they did to the farmer in terms of putting the brakes on was just absolutely unacceptable.

In my first term, we had an agricultural trade surplus by a lot. We had a big surplus, meaning we were exporting American agricultural products all over the world, making a net profit and, in many cases, a very substantial profit. He came in and ruined it. Biden turned that surplus into a gaping agricultural deficit that continues to this day. But we're knocking it down. It's starting to go very good.

In fact, China, as you know, is buying a tremendous amount of soybeans. And the number—I spoke with President Xi recently—very recently—and I think he's going to do even more than he promised to do. So I think it's—the relationship is a very good one. I think he's going to do more than he promised to do, and what he promised to do is a lot. So we're very happy with that.

In the last year, Biden bankruptcies rose by 55 percent, having to do with farms. So farm bankruptcies under Joe Biden went up 55 percent. That's not good. But now we're once again in a position where a President is able to put farmers first. But unfortunately, I'm the only President that does that.

On day one, I terminated the "green new scam." Energy prices are down. Gasoline prices are down. We've slashed record numbers of crippling regulations, and we're working on huge trade deals, already securing $60 billion in agricultural purchase commitments. And you know, Biden made none. He didn't make any trade deals having to do with the farmers or any of it. It's crazy. China committed. He was the worst President in the history of our country, by the way, in case anybody has any questions.

China committed to over $40 billion of soybean purchases, and that's a commitment. And I asked President Xi if he could even up it, and I think he'll do that. I mean, not a commitment. The $40 billion is a commitment, but the soybean farmers are quite happy.

Since my successful meeting in South Korea with President Xi, purchases have been made and soybeans are being exported out of the United States to China as we speak. And I say that our soybeans—I told this to President Xi—our soybeans are more nutritious than competitors. Somebody said, "Is that a Trump statement or is that real?" [Laughter] In fact, you know who asked me that question? President Xi asked me that question. He said: "Really? I had never heard of it." And he was a food purchaser for a long time. But that's what I hear.

And Japan agreed to $8 billion in purchases of corn, soybeans, ethanol, fertilizer, aviation biofuel, and rice. [Laughter] You know, Japan never bought rice from anybody else. It's like a very important thing to them, and they agreed to buy rice. Okay?

Kennedy Rice Mill Founder and Chief Executive Officer Meryl Kennedy. Absolutely.

So I also proudly signed into law the largest tax cuts in history in the "One Big Beautiful Bill," the monumental tax relief bill that is benefiting—very, very strongly benefiting the American farmer.

And I think also, for farmers, we have, as you know—and we got this—the estate tax—or the "death tax," as they call it—on farmers, on small businesses. You don't have to pay it anymore. A lot of farms would—you love your children, and your children are great, and they want to be farmers, and you leave the farm to your children. And a lot of farms are—you know, sort of cash poor. Land rich, cash poor.

And the kids would go to the local bank, or to any bank, and they'd borrow money to pay the estate tax, and they'd end up losing the farm, they'd go bankrupt, and lot of death too. You know, literally, because they love their farm and they love their business, and they love that way of life, they end up committing suicide. A lot of suicides.

We have no more estate tax. How about that? You have children?

But the estate tax is a very big thing. So you don't have estate tax. You die, you leave your farm or whatever—or small business to your children. You don't have to pay estate tax. It seems to affect the farmer more than anybody else, because you can have a farm that's very valuable, and therefore, you have to pay a big tax, but it's not a big value in terms of cash.

Maximizing domestic farm production is a big part of how we will make America affordable again and bring down grocery prices for American families. And again, these are prices that we inherited. When I left, we were doing incredible. In 4 years, what they've done to this country and so many, and not even mentioning the border and the criminals allowed into our country and all of the others.

So I just wanted to say it's a tremendous honor being with you. I'd now like to ask Secretary Rollins to provide some of the details, followed by Secretary Bessent, Director of the National Economic Council Kevin Hassett, Senator Boozman, Representative Scott, and then we go to a couple of the farmers' representatives, but we'll all get involved a little bit. You can speak—anybody is shy to speak in front of the press, and I don't blame you if that's the case. [Laughter]

But farmers Cordt Holub and Meryl Kennedy will say a few words also, and then we'll have a little discussion. Okay?

Madam Secretary.

So we will never stop fighting. We will make sure that we're doing everything we can to ensure the next 250 years is just as bright, if not brighter, than the last.

So thank you, sir.

Thank you, Brooke. Thank you. And this money would not be possible without tariffs. The tariffs are taking in, you know, hundreds of billions of dollars. And we're giving some up to the farmers because they were mistreated by other countries for, I don't know, maybe right reasons, maybe wrong reasons. They weren't—they were trying to show us something. And it would—it's really worked out really well. But because of the tariffs, this is possible.

The other thing I'd like to add before going to Scott, and I think it's very important, we're going to also give the tractor companies—John Deere and all of the companies that make the equipment—we're going to take off a lot of the environmental restrictions that they have on machinery. It's ridiculous. I know because I buy a lot of that machinery for different things. We have a lot of big clubs with, you know, hundreds, thousands of acres, and I buy a lot of stuff. And you buy it, and it's got so much equipment on it for the environmental. It doesn't do anything except it makes the equipment much more expensive and much more complicated to work. And it's not as good as the old days.

And we're going to take a lot of that nonsense off of the equipment, which is going to reduce. And we're going to do it, and we're going to say you're going to reduce the prices. We're not going to do it, and they're not going to reduce. They're going to have to reduce their prices, because farming equipment has gotten too expensive. And a lot of the reason is because they put these environmental excesses on the equipment, which don't do a damn thing except make it complicated, make it impractical.

So we're going to take that off—that crap off that they put on—Biden, mostly. And we're going to take that off. So that's going to make a big—that will bring down farm—the equipment prices by a lot.

Scott, please, go ahead.

I believe Representative Scott and a group in the House that—we were originally just going to do factories, and they called us and said, "You need to do farm structures too." And the President said, "We're all in." And it extended and enhanced much-needed relief for the punishing death tax, giving family farms greater certainty as they plan for the next generation.

You know what we'll do? We're going to go a little faster, because the last meeting we had was 3 hours. [Laughter] We're the most transparent group. So, if we can go faster, it will be great.

And then we'll take some questions from the fake news. Is that okay? All right.

Kevin, go real fast. Kevin.

National Economic Council Director Kevin A. Hassett. Yes, I could go really fast, sir. [Laughter]

Sir, the farm economy, you always ask me to just get a few numbers to put it in perspective, and as I've looked through the incredible performance of these people that work so hard and are such important people for keeping communities alive, the thing that struck me the most, because you and I were here in the White House during COVID, is that during those terrible COVID times, farm production didn't go down. Like these farmers, they went to work every day, and they produced so much.

But then Joe Biden came in. So we had COVID, and farm production didn't go down. And then Joe Biden came in, and he really wrecked the farm economy. And so, during Biden's term, 150,000 farms closed, sir—150,000 farms closed, after we went through COVID and we didn't have a problem.

Now, why did we do it, why were we able to do that—I'm going fast. [Laughter] The first is that—do you know the expenses for farms fell 5 percent while we were here because of all the things that we did, expensing and everything else? But under Joe Biden, they went up 13 percent because of all, you know, the regulations, energy, everything else.

But the thing that really jumped out at me the most is because you had high growth and low inflation, interest expense for the farm economy fell $120 million per year while you were there in the White House. But under Joe Biden, it increased by $8 billion per year.

And so you wonder why it is that we need this $11 billion, maybe $12 billion to build a bridge loan to America's farmers. It's because we know how to fix it. But there really was a hole that was dug in the previous administration.

Thank you. Hope it was fast enough.

Thank you very much. That was quick. That was good. Appreciate it.

Senator, please.

Sen. Boozman. ——that through the years in the last administration and now this.

I was giving a presentation to the Senate a while back, and I was talking about us having the cheapest, safest food supply of any place in the world. It's not just about the farmers and rural America.

And so Marco Rubio was sitting by me, prior to coming over here and becoming a great Secretary of State, but he punched me and said, "John, always remind"—he was head of the Committee on Intelligence, and he punched me and said, "Always remind them: Food security is national security."

Right.

Sen. Boozman. So this is important for so many different reasons. And again, I appreciate you for recognizing that, not only now, but when you were campaigning in your first election, how you treated the farmers in that—in your first administration, and now stepping up.

So we look forward to helping you. If we need some additional help, looking to Congress——

Yes. [Inaudible]

Sen. Boozman. ——whatever, we'll be there for you, sir.

We're taking in so much money with the tariffs now that it's such a pleasure. Without it, you—we wouldn't be able to help you. We're making our country—we're the richest country in the world now.

And you know, we have a big decision. Hopefully, we're going to get the right decision. It's such a big thing in the Supreme Court right now, and we have a lot of bad people opposed to us—people that hate our country. Other countries are involved, some real sleazebags that I know—political sleazebags, and they're trying to take that away from us.

And we have other methods, but they're not as powerful.

Sen. Boozman. Right.

They're not as quick. Some of the wars that I solved wouldn't have been solved using those methods.

So it's a very important thing, the tariff. The decision of the Supreme Court is a very important thing.

And, Scott, we can do it other ways, but it's slow, and it's cumbersome and it doesn't have the power. It doesn't have the national security power that we have. So I hope we're going to be successful. That's all I can tell you.

Austin, please.

Thank you, John.

Rep. Scott. Absolutely.

Sen. Boozman. Can I—can I——

Rep. Scott. Absolutely.

Sen. Boozman. ——butt in and second that? She's—not only her, but her staff does a tremendous job.

I agree.

Sen. Boozman. And we really do—

Remember eggs? We came in and——

Sen. Boozman. ——appreciate all she does.

Rep. Scott. Absolutely.

——the people in the media—I'm going to be nice—people in the media—we're 3 days into office, Susie, right?

White House Chief of Staff Susan Wiles. Mm-hmm.

They say, "Egg prices are up like 90 percent—more than that." And I said, "I just got here. I didn't know about it." [Laughter] I just—anyway, she got those prices down to below what they were before. She's doing a great job.

Now beef is starting to come down, and some other things are starting to come down.

Again, we inherited these problems, but we're getting them down.

Go ahead, please, Austin.

Rep. Scott. She is a fact-based decisionmaker. And the egg issue is where I learned about her. She said: "We're not going to use a vaccine that doesn't work. We're going to develop a vaccine that does."

That's right.

Rep. Scott. And that is 100 percent what it takes. And so we have to make decisions based on facts.

And, President Trump, the trade issues, I want to thank you for—for exposing what other countries were doing to us.

Yes.

Rep. Scott. I want to mention one specifically for the benefit of Kevin and Scott. I know they're—I hope they're paying attention to it, but this—the European Union Deforestation Regulation, where they are imposing on our landowners rules that were established for Brazil, and now they're telling the American farmer what they can and can't do on—on their own land through this European Union Deforestation Regulation. I——

Now, what one is that? Tell—explain that.

Rep. Scott. They are telling the American farmer that if their timber is cut and they are going to use that land for pasture land or for production agriculture that they will not take the timber or the by-products from the sale of that timber.

And I have talked with Jamieson a little earlier about we need to make it clear to Europe, Mr. President, if you would——

If you could give me a two-paragraph statement on that, I will give that to them, and they will do what they have to do.

Rep. Scott. Yes, sir.

We're always helping them. And they do this kind of stuff. And you know, they pass little regulations that are—that cost billions of dollars. It takes them 2 minutes to do it. They do it. Very tough. No good.

Rep. Scott. Yes, sir.

You give me a couple of paragraphs or so—we don't have to do a lengthy study—and I'll get that changed fast.

Rep. Scott. Thank you.

Okay?

Rep. Scott. Thank you very much, President. We love you. And——

It's incredible. It's incredible. Every day, it's something else.

Rep. Scott. A country that can't feed itself doesn't know what freedom is, and so thank you for making sure that our farmers have the tools that they need so that we as a country can feed ourselves.

Well, just what you said to me about, you know, the European Union. I think that's the European Union, right? We have to be able to act quickly with tariffs. We can't just, you know, go to a committee, go to a study that takes 7 months, and talk. We've got to be able to act quickly.

So thank you very much.

Rep. Scott. Thank you.

John.

So today is all about bridging to get there. And I want to thank Secretary Bessent and Jamieson Greer. They're tremendous, and they're negotiating hard out there for farmers and ranchers.

They are.

Sen. Hoeven. And I know it's because you're setting the tone. But this is that bridge.

And so we need to come back to Secretary Rollins. Thank you. Your leadership on this was vital.

And, Mr. President, this—you're right. They love you in farm country out there. All you have to do is drive out and see the flags and——

I—no, there's signs all over the fields there.

Sen. Hoeven. On the hay bales, right?

It's a great honor.

Sen. Hoeven. I—so——

They're great people. The best people.

Sen. Hoeven. ——this is really important—really important for our farmers and ranchers. Thank you very much.

You're—you're doing a great job, too, John. Thank you.

And whatever we need, we get through the Senate, we get through the House. We'll get it done.

I think we'll start maybe with Cordt Holub, and you come from——

Iowa Farm Bureau member Cordt Holub. Yes.

——a place that I'm very happy with, Iowa.

And I think—Mr. Trump, I think you brought—I think you brought Christmas to farmers. With this bridge payment, we'll be able to farm another year, help us get by.

It's such an honor to be here with you. I lost my grandfather and our hired hand in 2002 in a farming accident, and he instilled in me at an early age to love the land, to take pride in what we do.

Was that a machine accident?

Sen. Boozman. You've seen enough of us.

We'll take some pictures, right? Our representatives also, right? We have to let them come, because they're doing a great job. John and John and Austin, we appreciate it. You're doing a great job.

Meryl, go ahead, please. Tell us about rice.

It's so unfair. They go out of business, they put everyone out of business. That's what they did to our car industry—we lost more than 50 percent of our car industry because of that. We lost—our chip industry went to Taiwan because of that.

If you had a President that said: "No, you can't do that. It's 100-percent or 200-percent tariff on chips if you make them outside of the United"—we would have—we would have never lost our chip industry. But we're going to have 40 or 50 percent of it back very shortly, because they're all coming in now from Taiwan. They're building chip companies. But it's the same thing with rice.

Thank you, darling, very much. Really nice.

So do you have any questions?

How about keeping it on farming, as opposed to boats——

——or something?

Yes, do you have a farm question?

Consumer Prices

Well, I think the prices are going to be going down already. I mean, the prices are way down. We've brought prices way down from what it was. We inherited high prices. We inherited the biggest inflation in the history of our country—that means prices going up—and we brought it down very substantially.

Now, inflation is essentially gone. We have it normalized, and it will go down even a little bit further. You don't want it to be deflation either. You have to be careful. But we brought it way down.

We had inflation that was the highest in the history of our country. They say 48 years, but I say the history. Forty-eight years is pretty bad too. Right?

So we're solving those problems. We're bringing them way down.

Yes.

"Make America Healthy Guidelines" Nutrition Guidelines

Well, a lot of the farmers like those MAHA guidelines, yes.

How do you feel about that?

So, as the new dietary guidelines come out in early January—where USDA alone spends $400 million a day on nutrition programs. That's a whole other SNAP fraud, et cetera. But when you think about what a market mover that is, as we begin to move the market toward more locally produced, American-made, healthier products closer to the schools, the hospitals, et cetera, you again begin to open up so much of the market for the great products produced by these farmers instead of ultra-processed foods out of a box.

So there's a lot that's going to be coming on that as well. I'm really excited.

Okay.

District of Columbia U.S. Attorney Office's National Security Section Deputy Chief Jocelyn Ballantine

And everybody's talking about the pipe bomber over the weekend, the suspect that was taken into custody. I reported on Biden's kangaroo court for four years, and I—this is an important question to me. Everyone knows that J6 was a fedsurrection to set you and your supporters up.

So my question is: What's your gut instinct about the new pipe bomber suspect taken into custody? Does your instinct tell you that he acted alone?

And also, Mr. President, how do you feel about the lead prosecutor on the pipe bomber case? Jocelyn Ballantine is the same prosecutor that allegedly asked a J6er to lie to frame you for J6 when you did nothing wrong. What are your thoughts?

Well, thank you. I really appreciate that question. It's sort of a statement, and I appreciate it very much.

Jocelyn is being looked at. They all have to be looked at. What they're doing is so bad. This was a whole Democrat hoax. The whole thing was a Democrat hoax, and it's all being looked at.

Appreciate that.

Federal Relief for Farmers

It depends on where we go. China is buying a lot. Other countries are buying a lot. And you know, the interesting thing about the farmer, they don't want aid. They want to just have a level playing field.

This is going to be the golden age, but the farmers don't want aid. They want to have a level playing field, because if they have a level playing field, they'll do better than anybody else.

It's a very big statement I made, though: the environmental excess that we have put onto our tractors and all of our machinery. Do you all agree with that, by the way? Do you agree?

Here we go. Listen to this.

U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific

I didn't say that. That's—you said that. I didn't say that. This is ABC fake news.

No, I—whatever Hegseth wants to do is okay with me.

Oh, whatever he decides is okay with me.

So every boat we knock out of the water—every boat, we save 25,000 American lives. That was a boat loaded up with drugs. I saw the video. They were trying to turn the boat back to where it could float, and we didn't want to see that, because that boat was loaded up with drugs, just like everything else.

But every boat we shoot down—and I don't know if you know, we're 92- or 94-percent down in drugs coming in by the sea, and we're trying to find who are the 6 percent, because I don't know, people aren't liking to drive boats right now loaded up with drugs. But every single—put—think of that. Every single boat we shoot out, on average, we save 25,000 American lives.

Do you feel okay about that, Cordt?

And what about you, Meryl? Are you okay with that?

You're the most obnoxious reporter in the whole place. Let me just tell you, you are an obnoxious—a terrible—actually, a terrible reporter. And it's always the same thing with you.

I told you: Whatever Pete Hegseth wants to do is okay with me.

2026 Congressional Midterm Elections

And Democrats also. And Democrats also.

Well, why don't you mention them? How many Democrats are going to retire?

How many Democrats?

No, no, but why don't you tell me the number of Democrats too?

No, I'm not concerned.

New York Gubernatorial Election

I think we're going to do well. We will have the greatest economy.

We're going to have the greatest economy in history.

How many Democrats are retiring? How come you only know the Republicans, but not the Democrats?

No, no, you're unprepared, because you should know the Democrats. You're totally unprepared.

Who are you with? Who are you with?

She's great. She's great.

He's also great.

Well, I'll think about it. But he's great, and she's great. They're both great people. We have a lot of great people in the Republican Party.

Go ahead.

Farm Profits/Tariffs

Yes.

That's right.

Well, one of the things it—a lot of it does come in from Canada.

But I would say—what you do? You put very severe tariffs on from coming into other countries. You'll be making your own fertilizer very soon.

So when they take——

Domestic Soybean Production/Domestic Agriculture

That's what I've heard.

Yes.

I like homegrown. You know, some things we can't grow because we don't have the heat. There are some things, you know, little delicacies or maybe not such delicacies, but they grow better in warmer climates—very warm climates, actually—but for the most part, I like homegrown.

Okay.

Tariff Revenue

Yes, I am. If—we're going to make the farmers so strong, and I'm not even talking about financially, I mean, because that—they just want to be able to produce what they can produce.

You know, we had it going in the first administration, and then Biden came in and ruined everything.

That's why I got 94 percent of the vote from the farmers. [Laughter]

Go ahead.

Ukraine/U.S. Security Assistance/Russian Conflict/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

Well, we just want to see people stop from being killed. You know, we don't—as you know, Joe Biden gave them $350 billion. You know what I gave them? Nothing. I gave—well, I did give them Javelins at the beginning and knocked out a hell of a lot of tanks, but—and Obama gave sheets.

Remember? Obama gave sheets and I gave Javelins.

But no, we have a great situation going over there, except for one problem: You got a lot of people dying, and I want to see that stop.

So you have Ukrainian—mostly Ukrainian soldiers and Russian soldiers. Last month, 27,000 soldiers died—mostly soldiers, a few people from there—the dropping of a missile in the middle of Kyiv or wherever, which is a terrible thing. But mostly soldiers—27,000 soldiers died last month. That's what I want to see stopped.

We—as you know——

What we are doing is spending time on a humane basis. We want to see if we can stop the killing of 27—it would have never happened—this war would have never happened if the election weren't rigged. If I were President, this war would have never happened.

China-U.S. Trade

Say it.

Yes.

No, I haven't heard that.

But we're doing well. The tobacco people—because of the deals I made, they're doing very well—but that could be in—if it's the case, I can get it solved very quickly.

Yes.

We did. Yes, we looked how they were hurt, to what extent they were hurt. We did a very, you know, steady progression of charts, and we figured out a very exact number, and it was about $12 billion.

Okay?

National Economy

I would say very simply—you know, I go by—I go by a statement—when people asked that question—remember that question was asked by—to Ted Kennedy? And they said, "Well, what are you going to do to make America great?" And he couldn't answer the question. I have a very simple—we're going to make America greater than ever before, and we're going to do it through a series of tariffs, intelligent taxes, and incentives. And our country has never been stronger. We've never had anything like coming in.

We have $18 trillion coming into our country right now. There's never been anything like it. And if you ask me that, I'll say, "I just want to keep doing what I'm doing, because there's never been anything like it's happened."

The most—the biggest number ever in history was $2 trillion, and we're at $18 trillion. This is money pouring into our country on building car plants, on building AI plants. We just want to keep doing exactly what we're doing, because nothing like this has ever happened in the history of the world—not just our country. There's never been—Scott, would you say that's right? There's never been anything like the investments coming into America.

Yes.

That's because Obamacare is so bad.

What I'm going to do is—if the Democrats go along with it, which they don't want to because they want to make the insurance companies very rich, okay? I want the money to be paid to the people to go out and buy their own health care instead of paying to the—you know, the insurance companies, their stock has gone up 1,700 percent in a short period of time. Did you know that? Seventeen hundred. You wish your corn went up, right? [Laughter]

But the insurance companies' stock has gone up by 1,700 percent, 1,800 percent. They're taking in trillions of dollars.

I don't want to pay the insurance companies anything, and I'm—I know a lot of them, but they're owned by the Democrats, and the Democrats have—Obamacare is a setup to make insurance companies rich. And I want to pay the people, and I want the people to go out and buy their own health care. And that's what we want to do, and that's what the Republicans want to do, because Obamacare is a disaster.

And I said it 5 years ago, 4 years ago, 3 years ago. It was always a disaster. It's bad health care that's too expensive for people.

And now, your premiums—and you said it better than I said it. You said the Obamacare premiums are going to go up. They're going way up. And what I want to do is have the money. And you know, who's getting that money? A lot of it is the insurance companies. I want the people to get the money and go out and buy their own health care. And everybody wants that, right?

Okay.

X Social Media Platform

For what?

Wow. That was pretty——

——amazing. You're—you're talking about—is that European Union or is it—who did that? European Union or U.K.?

Whoa, that's a nasty one. I don't know.

Elon has not called me to ask for help on that one.

But no, that's a tough thing. I don't think it's right. No, I don't think it's right. I don't see, you know, how they can do that. No. I'm not—I'm going to—I'll speak about it later. I'm going to get a full report on it.

Look, Europe has to be very careful. They're doing a lot of things. We want to keep Europe, Europe. Europe is going in some bad directions. It's very bad—very bad for the people. We don't want Europe to change so much. They're going in some very bad directions. That was a big—you know, it was a bad thing.

You're going to have to say it again.

Childhood Vaccine Schedules

Louder. Louder.

Yes.

Well, we're looking at a lot of things having to do with vaccines and with the—you know, the different—I think we take like 88 different shots all wrapped up in one, one big glass of stuff like that—[laughter]—and we're going to be reducing it very substantially.

Yes.

It will be safe——

——but we're going to be reducing it very substantially.

Paramount/Warner Brothers/Netflix/U.S. Cease-Fire Agreement Between Hamas and Israel

I don't know enough about it.

Yes, I know—I know the companies——

——very well. I know what they're doing, but I'd have to see. I have to see what percentage of market they have. We have to see the Netflix percentage of market; Paramount, the percentage of market.

I mean, none of them are particularly great friends of mine. You know, I just—I want to—I want to do what's right. That's all. It's so very important to do what's right.

If Paramount is?

No, I don't know. I haven't—I've never spoken to him about it. He's really trying to work on Gaza. [Laughter] I think Gaza is his primary thing is Gaza.

Do you want to answer that question? [Laughter]

Health Insurance Reforms

We're looking at it very strongly, and we're also going to the Democrats and asking them to do it. The Democrats want to make the insurance companies rich. They're all paid off by the insurance companies. They're—a tremendous amount of the insurance company funding goes to Democrats. Why don't you ask that question of the Democrats? Because I would love to do it. I'd love all of the money go to the people. They go to the people.

You know, I put that out 2 weeks ago. It became number one, viral. People love it. I want the money to go for health care to go to the people and let the people buy their own health care through an account. They can buy their own health care. And everybody loves it, except for the Democrats. And you know why they don't? Because they're paid off by the insurance companies.

Okay, what else?

Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey Alina Habba/Senate Confirmation Process

Well, she's not disqualified. You've got a blue slip thing that's horrible. It's a horrible thing. It makes it impossible to appoint a judge or U.S. attorney, and it's a shame. And the Republicans should be ashamed of themselves that they allow this to go on. Because I can't appoint a U.S. attorney that's not a Democrat, because they put a block on it. So, if you appoint in Virginia or in New Jersey or in California, a U.S. attorney or a judge—I mean, a judge situation is ridiculous. The only people that you can get by are Democrats, because they will put a hold on it.

If I put up George Washington and Abraham Lincoln to be a U.S. attorney in New Jersey or to be U.S. attorney in Virginia, where you have Democrat Senators, they will not approve them. And this is a gentleman's agreement that's lasted for too long, and it doesn't make it possible —especially in light of what's going on today. It means you can't appoint a Republican U.S. attorney, and we don't play the same game with them, but they do.

And I hope that somebody speaks to Senator Grassley about doing something about the blue slip, because I'm telling you, if—John, I put up great people, top people, highest education, the best lawyers to be, like, U.S. attorney. And both Senators—it only takes one, but if they're—if they're Democrat Senators, they say, "We're not going to approve it."

I had a couple of them say, "Why don't you appoint Democrats?" All because Senator Grassley, with his blue slip stuff, will not let anybody go by.

By the way, the Democrats have violated the blue slip provision on numerous occasions, but we don't do it. And what it means is, I guess, I just have to keep appointing people for three months and then just appoint another one, another one. And it's a very sad situation. We're losing tremendous—we're losing a lot of great people. We have about seven U.S. attorneys who are not going to be able to keep their jobs much longer because of the blue slip. Because unless—I think I know why they did that: to protect their ass. Okay? That's why they did that.

But it should be done away with. I want to be able to appoint great—the most highly educated, the most respected people. They can't keep their jobs because of the blue slips. Terrible.

Okay, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

The farmers—let's come into the Oval Office. All right? Deb, come on. We're going to go into the Oval Office. You're going to see what a real office looks.
