Hello, everybody. Thank you very much.

Well, this is very exciting. This was one of the greatest moments in the history of U.S. sports. I wouldn't say—maybe for other countries, they weren't so thrilled, but for U.S. sports. And we have a very exciting team of champions standing behind me.

Staff Secretary Scharf. This is H.R. 452, the Miracle on Ice bill. The United States Congress has authorized three medals to be struck commemorating the historic victory of the United States men's hockey team in 1980 at the Lake Placid Olympics, where they obviously defeated the Russians in the—or the Soviet Union, excuse me, in the famous "Miracle on Ice" hockey game.

This will serve as a fitting commemoration of that incredible achievement and will hopefully be a lasting memorial of that achievement going forward, sir.

This was an amazing event. Pretty big—I mean, I don't know, there were some other upsets in the world. I haven't noticed them getting any of these, right? [Laughter] I think you're the only ones.

That's great. And we don't use autopens here. [Laughter]

This is a great achievement. Okay. Wait a minute. There you go, Mike. Take that.

1980 Olympic gold medalist Mike Eruzione. Thank you, sir.

So great. Right?

Thank you very much. It's a great honor to have the media too.

We're delighted to be joined today by true legends of American sports history and heroes for the entire nation, the 1980 U.S. Olympic ice hockey team. This was one of the biggest moments that I've ever seen in sports. And I like sports.

These are the men who gave us one of the most storied athletic wins of all time. It's called the "Miracle on Ice," and I guess that's what it was.

We're with us today by players like Jim Craig, Steve Janaszak, Bill Baker, Dave Christian, Ken Morrow, Jack O'Callahan, Mike Ramsey, Neal Broten, Mike Eruzione, Rob McClanahan, Buzz Schneider, Dave Silk, Phil Verchota, and numerous others.

And what I'd love for you to do—you know, when you have all of these media people—it's a nice, slow afternoon. Nothing is too slow around here. [Laughter] I think we just did a very good job with Thailand and Cambodia. We had them stopped. And I've been saying I stopped eight wars, but they started shooting at each other 2 days ago. It wasn't good. And we got it, I think, straightened out today. So Thailand and Cambodia is in good shape.

So we get a lot done. Eight wars. Nobody has ever stopped eight wars. We have one more to go. The easiest one, I thought, would be a country that you're somewhat familiar with: Russia and Ukraine. But we're—a lot of progress is being made even there.

Could I ask you to just say your name, and if you have anything to say, you could say that also. And then we'll get on with reading some of the stats.

National Hockey League's St. Louis Blues defenseman Ryan Suter. Yes. My name is Ryan Suter. I'm here representing my dad, Bob, who passed away. It's a true honor for me to be a part of this, and I thank these guys for allowing me to be a part of their team. And thank you for having this and hosting us.

Your father was some player.

Wow.

Participant. He played 1,500 games in the NHL.

So pretty comparable though, right?

1980 Olympic gold medalist William "Buzz" Schneider. Oh, yes.

Better? You think, better? [Laughter]

Congratulations.

Please.

Tarja Lewis, daughter of 1980 Olympic gold medalist Mark Pavelich. I'm Tarja Lewis, and I am here representing my dad, Mark Pavelich. He—I am so honored to be here. I just—I'm at a loss for words, to be honest. Like, I can't believe this is real.

And I want to say to you, President Trump: I know so many people from Duluth, Minnesota, that love you. And I just——

Ah, thank you.

Please, go ahead.

1980 Olympic gold medalist Ken Morrow. I'm Ken Morrow.

Yes.

Thank you very much.

1980 Olympic gold medalist Jim Craig. Hi. I'm Jim Craig, and it's an honor to be here. I'm so proud of all my teammates and what we were able to accomplish for our country. And when you get a chance to represent your country, whether it's in the military or a sport, and you do something really special like our team did and then be recognized that many years later.

So, Mr. President, I want to thank you for your courage that you show the country every single day——

Thank you.

I didn't know you were on that team.

Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Kashyap P. "Kash" Patel. Yes. Yes.

Was Kash—[Laughter]—was Kash on the team?

1980 Olympic gold medalist Neal Broten. Hi. I'm Neil Broten from Minnesota. Thank you, Mr. Trump. It's an honor. You're celebrating us, and I can't believe I'm even here. [Laughter] This is incredible.

It's an amazing office. It's——

Thank you very much.

Mike.

Participant. [Laughter] There you go!

You remember a certain Governor in Massachusetts, when they put that helmet on? That was not good. [Laughter]

1980 Olympic gold medalist Dave Silk. Mr. President, my name is Dave Silk.

Yes.

1980 Olympic gold medalist Bill Baker. Mr. President.

Thank you.

Billions of dollars have been stolen—billions—sent back to Somalia. And Tom can solve that problem better than anybody. And you have the go-ahead, right?

Rep. Emmer. Yes, sir.

Thank you very much. Thank you.

Rep. Emmer. Thank you.

What do you think of this team?

Rep. Emmer. This is the team that set the whole tone for this country back in 1980.

Yes.

Rep. Emmer. It was the beginning of the great comeback—which, by the way, Donald J. Trump was the next beginning of the great comeback. So it's perfect that it's both you and this great team from 1980.

Thank you, Tom.

Rep. Emmer. Yes.

You're doing a fantastic job. Really, a great leader. We appreciate you. And friend. And Jacquie is a—you have a great spouse.

Rep. Emmer. Remember, that's her favorite.

[Laughter] Oh, that's right. That's true. That's what I heard.

Rep. Emmer. Yes. Yes, yes.

And Elise—everybody knows Elise. She's doing phenomenally well, a really tremendous Congresswoman. And she's running for a little position called Governor of New York——

Audience member. Woo!

——and she's got a hell of a shot at it. It's all I can see. I see polls that look very good. And we—could use you in New York. She's got a little competition and with a very good Republican, but she's a great Republican, so we'll see what happens. But Elise is respected by everybody, and we appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you—[inaudible].

Rep. Stefanik. ——to my constituents, and we are home of the Miracle on Ice. And it's wonderful to be here with these teammates who just stood so proudly for Team U.S.A.

Thank you. Thank you, Elise.

Please.

Dan Brooks, son of 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team head coach Herb Brooks. My name is Dan Brooks.

Yes.

Please.

Michael Pavelich, brother of 1980 Olympic gold medalist Mark Pavelich. I'm honored to be here. I'm representing my brother, Mark, who died in 2024. I know he's looking down with a big smile on his face.

He is. Great player.

Is it still?

1980 Olympic gold medalist Mike Ramsey. Mr. President, Mike Ramsey. I'm also from Minnesota and Minneapolis. It's not Hockeytown, Minnesota. [Laughter] It's an honor to be here with my teammates and you. This is awesome.

That's great.

1980 Olympic gold medalist Steve Janaszak. Mr. President, Steve Janaszak. Also from Minnesota—White Bear Lake, Minnesota.

Right.

1980 Olympic gold medalist Phil Verchota. Wow. I didn't know we had to talk. [Laughter]

Rep. Emmer. Oh, yes.

No, so many people. A lot of the team. Congratulations. And Minnesota is going to be back, right?

Rep. Emmer. It'd better be back.

It will be back. Going to be back. You've got a little bad Governor up there and a couple of other little problems, but it's going to be back. And unbelievable people in Minnesota.

Forty-five years ago, this tremendous group of collegiate players and amateurs faced overwhelming odds against the Soviet Union in Lake Placid Winter Olympics. They said it was the greatest team ever put together, the Soviet team. They weren't saying that about you, but you were damn good. [Laughter] And they were saying that team was unbeatable.

The same month, the U.S.S.R.'s hockey team had crushed our squad. They did a—I guess an exhibition game of some kind, and it was not pretty: 10 to 3. And people were not even looking forward to this game, fellas. I hate to tell you. [Laughter] They liked it. That last 10 minutes were not fun.

The Soviets had not lost an Olympic game since 1968, and they were coming off a four-straight gold record—a gold medals: in '64, they won the gold—'68, '72, and '76. Other than that, they weren't that good, right? [Laughter] They were great. And this was supposed to be the best team that they ever had.

So it wasn't looking too sharp for our great champions behind me. And as one American sportswriter put it at the time, the whole world expected the Soviets to win, quote, "unless the ice melts." So that wasn't a very good statement.

But then it began. Despite the long odds, the Team U.S.A. blazed through the group stage, meaning other countries—went through them pretty easily—advancing to a long-awaited rematch against the U.S.S.R. Three times we went down by a goal. For most of the game, they were down by a goal. Three times. And then remarkable players put America back on top where we always wanted to be.

Buzz Schneider, he scored the opening goal and a slap shot from 50 feet. That's a big slap shot. [Laughter] Where is Buzz? That's a hell of a——

A miracle—thank you.

We have a puck here. Does this mean anything, or is this something you just gave me?

In the second period, Jim Craig withstood a barrage of shots on goal and kept the dream alive. That's the guy, right? And then after a goal from team captain Mike Eruzione, who's a fantastic guy, and I know him from outside of hockey. We play golf. We were on a golf team together, and we happened to win, right?

But he put us up 4 to 3 midway through the third, these fighters held on to the longest 10 minutes of their lives. They call it the longest, most horrendous, scariest 10 minutes. Is that true?

And they're leading by one, and they got 10 minutes. And just please—did anybody pray? Were you praying? [Laughter] "Please, Lord, just"——

But to win one of the greatest comebacks in sports history, really, it was amazing. The observers in the arena noted it was the first time in his life that he heard the chant, "U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!" which I don't like hearing, because I tell people that that had to do with Trump in 2016—[laughter]—slightly after—slightly after your big win. But no longer. That's the end of that, right? I can't use that one anymore. [Laughter] But I do remember them doing that exactly. For a long time, they were doing that.

This team united us, and they inspired us. The United States was, like, brought to a level that it—of sports that they've never seen, and they brought us Olympic glory that we celebrate to this day. Nobody thought it was possible. It really shows that, you know, anything is possible. Nobody thought that one was possible. But I want to congratulate you all.

And now I'd like to invite Mike to say a few words, and then Congressman Stauber, who introduced. And then we're going to speak from a couple of other people that, I have to tell you, our leader—I have to say that Emmer is a very special leader, and I want you to maybe wrap it up and say something on behalf of your great State in particular—the country, but your great State in particular. Okay?

Rep. Emmer. Thanks.

So let's go, Mike. You can start it off.

Rep. Emmer. Pete.

Pete?

Rep. Stauber. Yes. Right here.

And so I'mvery proud to have led this.

And I would be remiss if I didn't introduce my younger brother Robb, who was the——

Oh.

Rep. Stauber. ——he was a gold medal coach for the 2018 Women's Olympic gold medal team in Pyeongchang. And Robbie is right over there.

Good. Hi, Robb. Nice seeing you.

2018 Olympic Team U.S.A. women's ice hockey team head coach Robb Stauber. Yes, good to see you.

Rep. Stauber. So, Mr. President, I will just say that I'm in awe of these hockey heroes. And as we move forward, they changed the game of hockey. It was a powerful, dominant performance that this country needed. They beat the powerhouse Soviets. And as you know, you're continuing to do that today, and this was a great start of it.

And for me, I'm very just privileged and proud to stand with these Olympic heroes that literally changed a nation and gave us the strength that we needed at the time our Nation needed it. And to know these men here, they're humble, they're—the humility is—through the roof. And I just want to thank you for signing this. This means a lot to me personally, but it means more to the team.

When I talked to them this afternoon, it was—this was a—as Mike just said, it's the cherry on top of what they did for this country. And thank you for signing it. And I appreciate it.

Well, we love it. And he's—he was a really great hockey player, too.

So let me ask you a question. Was your brother in this category of hockey player, or slightly less?

Rep. Stauber. He was—better than I. He was better than me. Robbie was a goaltender in the National Hockey League as well. So——

Wow, that's pretty good. Boy, that's——

Rep. Stauber. ——he was much—much better than me.

That's a lot of good genetics in this whole thing. But you were a hell of a player, too.

Rep. Stauber. Thank you, Mr. President.

Thank you, Pete.

So——

I'm going to put that down there.

Rep. Emmer. Mike. Mike.

Good photographer. You've got her a little off guard.

It's a good photo. Good idea.

So we're going to finish up with Tom Emmer, and he's been a—just a fantastic Congressman, leader, person from Minnesota. Loves that State. Boy, do you love that State.

Rep. Emmer. I do.

And they love you equally as much.

Please.

Rep. Emmer. Thank you, Mr. President. First, I got to thank Pete Stauber. As he's talking about humility, Pete Stauber actually was in the White House as a national championship captain of a national championship hockey team back in the 1980s.

That's not bad. Not bad. [Laughter]

Rep. Stauber. Thank you.

Rep. Emmer. This is a—this runs in the blood in Minnesota. This runs in our blood in Minnesota. But it's not about Minnesota, even though I will point out most the guys are from Minnesota. But that's not the point. [Laughter]

Rep. Emmer. If you think you're going to compete and you're going to give it everything you've got—these men who are standing here and their colleagues who are not here, God bless them—those who couldn't be here and those who have departed, they reached the ultimate peak. And when they did it, as Pete pointed out, they lifted an entire country out of the ditch and set us off to an amazing several decades that followed.

And it's not much unlike the 47th President of the United States. So I think it's entirely appropriate that you're doing this for these men. You're really doing it for the country. And God bless you, because Minnesota, I think, is going to experience a comeback, because of you.

No, I'm just so—I'm so impressed that so many of these champions come from Minnesota. It's amazing. It's a great place.

Thank you very much.

Rep. Emmer. We engineered them. [Laughter]

Yes, I think that's true. [Laughter] I think it's true.

Rep. Emmer. It starts again.

Well, thank you very much.

Any questions for the—let's go to the players first if you could.

Winning 1980 Olympic Hickey Game Against the Soviet Team

Mike Eruzione, I have to ask you a question: What did it mean—I realize it was the semifinal game, but what did it mean to you at the time to beat the Soviets—to beat the Soviet Union?

Ukraine/Russia/Name, Image, and Likeness Payment Arrangements in College Sports/University and College Budgets

Well, it's a very similar situation, isn't it? Let's see what happens. We're working on seeing if we can make a deal right now. We're going to see. We'll soon know, I guess. We're going to—see a lot of death.

Last month, fellas, 25,000 soldiers were killed in Ukraine and Russia.

And a lot of these sports that were training so well would win gold medals because of it. Those sports don't exist because they're putting all their money into football. And by the way, they're putting too much money into it—into football, because colleges don't make—even the most successful universities don't make that much money. And you can't pay a quarterback $14 million to come out of high school. They don't even know if he's going to be a very good player. I mean, they've tried a couple of times, $14- and $12 million. And a couple of deals like that, and the most successful colleges are losing money.

And I think the NIL is a disaster for sports. It's horrible for the Olympics. And it's—I think it's actually horrible for the players. And you're losing all of these great sports. They're not college football.

Even basketball is being affected. Basketball is second, but even basketball is being affected. They're putting all of their money in.

And I know something about it; they will not be able to stop. You're going to have a college president, "I'm telling you, sir, if we give a guard $7 million, we're going to win the national championship." And they'll give them seven, and they won't win it.

And even if they do win it, colleges cannot afford to be paying the kind of salaries that you're hearing about. And frankly, if you didn't have a very strong salary cap in sports—and even then, in professional sports—it would be—they'd all be out of business, every one.

You're going to have these colleges wipe themselves out. And something ought to be done, and I'm willing to put the Federal Government behind it. But if it's not done fast, you're going to wipe out colleges. They're going to get wiped out, including ones that do well in football. They can't pay $12 million, $14 million, $10 million, $6 million for players. They won't be able to stop. There will always be that one player. "If they only have that player, they're going to win the national championship," and they'll have 100 colleges thinking the same thing.

Colleges cannot afford to play this game. And it's a very bad thing that's happening. Very—[inaudible].

Venezuela/U.S. Airstrikes on Suspected Drug-Trafficking Vessels in the Caribbean Sea and Eastern Pacific/U.S. Durg Interdiction Efforts/Fentanyl/Border Security

Well, I wouldn't tell you that. I mean, it wouldn't—be very smart for me to tell you that. You know, we're supposed to be a little bit secretive. You're a very big-time reporter, and I don't think I want to tell a big-time reporter or a small-time reporter that.

But we are knocking out drugs at levels that nobody has ever seen before. We knocked out 96 percent of the drugs coming in by water, and nobody can figure out who the 4 percent. I wouldn't want to be the 4 percent either. [Laughter] But 96 percent of the drugs coming in by water. Every one of those boats you see get shot down, you just saved 25,000 American lives. But we knocked out 96 percent of the drugs coming in by water.

And now we're starting by land, and by land is a lot easier, and that's going to start happening.

And we're not going to have people destroying our youth, destroying our families. Forget about youth. Everybody. You ever see a family with the fentanyl or cocaine?

Colombia has at least three cocaine factories. That's a different country.

We're not happy about it. But we're stopping it, and we've stopped it now on water. You don't even find boats on water. You don't even see fishing boats on water.

You want to go fishing in that area? [Laughter] Does anybody want to go fishing in that area?

Rep. Stefanik. No.

I don't think so.

So I just want to say this: We have now a strong border. A year and a half ago, we had millions of people pouring through. Now we have nobody coming in through our border. And we have a strong country. We have a country that's respected again. We're going to keep it that way. And we're not going to let people kill 300,000 people a year with drugs.

Yes, please.

We don't want to hear from her. I don't want to hear from her. I don't want to speak for Emmer, but I don't think Emmer particularly wants to hear. But don't say it, because I don't want to get you in trouble, okay?

Rep. Emmer. Yes, sir.

Just be nice and easy. All right? I'll do it for you.

Rep. Emmer. Thank you.

That part I'll do.

And what's happening in Minnesota with Somalia, where billions of dollars is being stolen—right?—like candy from a baby. We're not going to let that go on. And it's too great a State to have that happening.

And guys like Tom Emmer and others, Pete Stauber, guys like them, they're going to stop it, and they're going to be given the authority to stop it, because this country is not going to put up with it anymore.

Venezuela/U.S. Counternarcotic Efforts

Well, I don't want to say that.

But it's not only land strikes on Venezuela, it's land strikes on horrible people that are bringing in drugs and killing our people.

You know, if we were in a war and we lost 300,000 people in a year, because that's what the real number is—it's not 100. You know, you keep hearing 100. And it's a lot worse than that, because the families are devastated when they lose their child. If we were in a war and we lost 2- or 300,000, but I think it's more than 300,000—and that's a war that's, like, a war that would be unparalleled. There's—nobody has ever seen anything like that, and that's what's happening.

So it doesn't necessarily have to be in Venezuela. It's people that are bringing in drugs to our country are targets.

Health Insurance Reforms

Well, don't make it sound so bad, because, you know, obviously you're a—you know, a sycophant for Democrats. You're obviously a provider of bad news for Republicans.

Let me just say something. The Republicans—I think I can speak for Tom and most of the people. I think what most Republicans want to see is what I want to see. And I leave it to them, and hopefully, they're going to put great legislation on this desk right here. We want to see all of the money that's been squandered and given to insurance company—because Obamacare is horrible health insurance; it's far too expensive and it always has been. But what it really is, is a way of making insurance companies rich. We want the money not to be paid at all to insurance companies.

You know, insurance companies have gone up 1,700 percent over a short—meaning the stock—1,700 percent over a short period of time. And they've taken in hundreds of billions and even trillions of dollars. And we want the money to go to the people. They'll go in the form of a insurance account, health care account, or any other form that we can create. We have a lot of different forms. We want to give the money to the people and let the people buy their own great health care.

And they'll save a lot of money, and it will be great.

Now, the problem we have is that the Republicans are not at all controlled by the insurance companies. But you know who is? The Democrats. The Democrats have received hundreds of millions of dollars. They're totally controlled by the insurance companies, so we might not get too many of their votes. But I actually think we'd get some Democrat votes.

So I don't know how you feel about it, Tom, but everybody wants to see this happen. Everybody. You know, I put it out, and all of a sudden, we've taken over, in a positive way—the Republicans have taken over health care in a positive way. I want to see the billions of dollars go to the people, not to the insurance companies. And I want to see the people go out and buy themselves great health care.

Much better health care at very little cost. That's what I want. And it's so simple.

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act

Well, we're going to look into it. We're going to look into a lot of things. That's one of many factors. But what we do want to see is we want to see the money go to the people, not to the insurance companies.

Yes, please.

No, no. Wait, wait, wait. You have to be nice and easy. Nice and easy. She's very aggressive.

Okay. Please.

Ukraine/Russia

Well, I don't want to do that now. It's a very complex situation. But it— would work, and a lot of people want to see it work. And we're going to—all I want to do is I want to stop the death of 25,000 people a month.

Go ahead.

Department of Justice Files Concerning Deceased Convicted Sex Offender Jeffrey Epstein

Well, I haven't seen them. But, I mean, everybody knew this man. He was all over Palm Beach. He has photos with everybody. I mean, almost—there are hundreds and hundreds of people that have photos with him. So that's no big deal. I know nothing about it.

Interest Rates/Federal Reserve System

Well, you know, I've made a lot of money. I've been very successful. And I think my role should be at least that of recommending. They don't have to follow what I say, but we're going to be choosing a new Fed person in the pretty near future.

But they went out—you know, they went out with 71 different people—all economists and Trump; I was 71—and of the 71 people, I got it right. And one other person, I think, from the Wharton School of Finance, my alma mater, got it right. There were two people that got it right out of seventy—but I was one of them.

So I think I certainly should have a role in talking to whoever the head of the Fed is, or the Fed. I don't think it—you know, in the old days, that used to happen. Nowadays, it's sort of—they think it shouldn't happen. But I've done great. I've made a lot of money. I've been very successful. I think my voice should be heard. But I'm going—I'm not going to make the decision based on that. I'll be making a decision over the next few weeks.

Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Army-Navy Football Game

Thank you. Thank you.

Yes.

Army-Navy game tomorrow.
