It's a great honor to be here. Gianni has done a fantastic job. We're setting records—[inaudible].

Well, I think so. They have a little bit of a shot. Pretty stiff competition. But I would say they would have a small chance.

2025 FIFA Peace Prize

Well, it would be an honor.

2026 World Cup Draw Event

Well, I root for a lot of countries, but in this case, I'll be rooting for the U.S.A. [Laughter]

That's great. That's great. We really love it.

2025 FIFA Peace Prize

I have not——

I have not been told. There's a rumor about it, but I have not been told. That would be a great honor, and I'm a big fan of Gianni, as you know.

Excuse me.

Well, I don't like to say "hope," but it would be a great honor.

2026 World Cup

I think it's going to be fantastic. We've set every record you can set.

Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) President Giovanni V. Infantino

I think he has done a fantastic job.

The President's Schedule

We might. Yes.

I might. I might do that.

Yes, we'll be discussing.

Thank you, everybody.

2026 World Cup Draw Event/John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Oh, look, the new star—[inaudible].

Congratulations.

You're the new star of television and Fox.

I'm doing very well.

I think the crowd is great, and I think the building is great. We've made a lot of improvements over the last 6 months. Taking—the Kennedy Center was in very bad shape. Now it's getting to be really good. And in 6 months, it's going to be incredible with the improvements we've made.

Right.

I'm ready for it, and they're ready for it. And Gianni, who you know——

How are you?

Nice to see you.

Right.

That's right. That's right.

2026 World Cup Draw Event

It's just a big day, and it's a great sport. And it really is coming to America. And never—nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. And I'm very happy to say that we've already set the alltime record on ticket sales long before the first ball is kicked. Right?

I've proven that in DC and everywhere else we went, so we'll take care of that very easily. So, if they have a problem, hopefully, they'll let us know that, and we will solve any problem.

Okay? Thank you.

2026 World Cup

I think very. It's a great honor. I think Gianni is doing a phenomenal job. We've set every record on ticket sales. It's been really fantastic. But Gianni has done an unbelievable job with FIFA.

The President's Experience With Soccer

He was a great—not only that. I got to see a man name Pelé play—right?—that tells you how old I am—when he was on the Cosmos. Do you remember that a long time ago? And it was quite a treat. That was quite an event. And he was—not only was he playing, he was great. He scored two goals, I think. And so, I was one of the few who got to see Pelé, and I assume he is one of your alltime greats. Right?

The President's Favorite World Cup Competitor

Well, I have a favorite. It's the U.S.A. [Laughter] I don't know what their chances are, Gianni, but maybe the U.S.A. is the——

Thank you very much, everybody.

2026 World Cup

[Inaudible]—record business and only in the United States, but we're also doing record ticket sales with FIFA. And they've already bought—beat their highest record. And we—you know, this a long time before the first ball is kicked. You've sold more tickets than they've ever done before, and better pricing than they've ever gotten before. It's a tremendous success. And it's an honor. And Gianni has done a phenomenal job with FIFA.

I think so. I think it's going to be—I mean, ideally, you want to see that every year. Every 4 years, it gets bigger and better. I think we have set every record in the book. We're very happy about it.

Thank you.

The President's Favorite World Cup Competitor

Well, I think I have to support U.S.A. Otherwise, I'd be in trouble. I wouldn't be President for long.

The President's Interest in Soccer

No, but I got to meet Ronaldo the other day, came to the White House. He was fantastic. He's a handsome guy and a great guy. And my son Barron and him—and they had a big conversation. And my son loves soccer—"football," as you would say. But Ronaldo is great. He's a great guy. He's got the whole package. He's a great player.

Thank you very much. Thank you. [Inaudible]

2026 World Cup Draw/Ticket Sales for World Cup

The President of Mexico is here, and she's doing a very good job. She's a good woman, very, very excellent job. It's an honor, and we're setting every record, and you're helping us set those records.

I think that Gianni—as you know, he's the head, and he has done a fantastic job.

U.S. Cooperation With Mexico and Canada

Well, I think that—do you mean for the three countries?

Well, they've gotten together really well, I mean.

I do. I like it. I like it more and more.

I like it. It's growing in this country—very, really—I mean, someday, maybe it's going to be bigger than anything else.

How are you?

Very good. Thank you.

Well, we do. And right at the Kennedy Center. I'm Chairman of the Kennedy Center. And I hear the Kennedy Center is doing a very good job, so it feels great. Really good.

And Telemundo is doing a good job, too. Thank you.

2026 World Cup

It's a—in terms of sports, I would say the ultimate. There is no sport like this. It's the biggest sport in the world. And we are setting every record. You know, our ticket sales have gone and set every—every sport—no matter what it is, we've set the record. So—and every though it's very early, there's no ball being kicked yet, but we've already set a ticket sales record.

Argentina National Team

Well, I love Argentina. And your President is doing a very good job, as you know. Milei. You know that right? It's make Argentina great again. MAGA.

U.S. National Team

Who?

Oh, yes. Sure. I—you're going to have a lot of powerful teams. Everybody has a lot of powerful teams, but you're going to have a lot of great teams. [Inaudible]

U.S. Role in Hosting the 2026 World Cup

I'm honored to host it. It's a great honor. I mean, it's turned out to be bigger than we thought. We're setting a record for ticket sales, the likes of which no sport has ever seen before.

The President's Interest in Soccer

Believe it or not, I did. I did, and I loved it. I had a—I was okay. I wouldn't say—I was not Ronaldo or Messi. I was a little bit short of them. [Laughter] But——

But no, I was fine. But I loved playing soccer.

Popularity of Soccer in Latin America

Yes, I am. And Latin America is great. And they have great soccer. So, good luck in the matches.

U.S. Visas for World Cup Ticketholders

Well, we're going to make it very easy for them. We're working on that right now. We're going to make it very easy. It's going to be a very easy process.

Hello. Is that Colombia?

I love Colombia. Hello, Colombia. [Laughter]

So where are you from?

Oh.

Very good. I love it. I—it's a beautiful country. We get along very well with them. We do a little trade deal with them, and they like us. And that's what's happening.

Where?

Very good. I like the canal. [Laughter] That canal is pretty good.

2026 World Cup

What?

Well, it's going to be incredible. The event is going to be very good. Just this event alone—it's at the Kennedy Center. I see you have it fixed up perfectly.

Have a good time.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts/Renovation Work

Thank you, everybody, very much. It's a great honor. This has been an honor for a lot of reasons. Number one, they've sold more tickets than any event has ever sold already—long before the kickoff.

And number two, we've done a lot of work at the Kennedy Center. It was falling apart, and now it's pretty much back. And we'll get it back within the next 4 or 5 months through construction, and—but you see the way it looks.

And Gianni is just telling me—who's done an incredible job, by the way. He's just telling, you know, how good a job we've done.

We've set a record on ticket sales, as you probably heard, already, even way before—long before the event itself. And we're working with Canada, and we're working with Mexico. And it's been a really spectacular—so far, it's been spectacular.

Daniel [Daniel Baldwin, One America News Network], do you have a question?

2026 World Cup

Well, I think—

Yes, I—think——

Even today, I understand. I hear that, you know——

2025 FIFA Peace Prize/The President's Foreign Policy

Well, I think the peace prize—I mean, I settled eight wars. I don't know that I'm getting it. I haven't been officially noticed. I've been hearing about a peace prize, and I'm here to represent our country in a different sense. But I can tell you, I did settle eight wars, and we have a ninth coming, but—which nobody has ever done before.

But I want to really save lives. I don't need prizes. I need to save lives. And we're saving a lot of lives. And I've saved millions and millions of lives, and that's really what I want to do.

And I also want to run a great country. And the United States right now is the hottest country anywhere in the world. And 1 year ago, it was dead. We had a dead country, and now we have the hottest country anywhere in the world.

The President's Meeting With President Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo of Mexico and Prime Minister Mark Carney of Canada

Well, we're getting—we're going to meet with both. And we're getting along very well. You know, we're getting along very well. I don't know. I think we have a meeting set up for some time after the event.

Yes, we'll discuss trade. We—get along very well.

Thank you, everybody, very much.

NOTE: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. In his remarks, he referred to Trey Yingst, chief foreign correspondent, Fox News Channel; Cristiano Ronaldo, forward for Saudi Pro League club Al-Nass and Portugal's national soccer team; and Lionel Messi, forward for Major League Soccer club Inter Miami and Argentina's national team. A reporter referred to New York State Attorney General Letitia James. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on December 8, 2025, with a corrected transcript released on January 2, 2026. Portions of these remarks could not be verified because the audio was incomplete.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/386198
