Well, thank you very much. It's an honor to be with you, and I thank the media for being here. This—we've taken long trips, and this was a long one, but it's been working very well. We're having tremendous meetings with heads of state, with people of very big consequence, having to do with war and peace, which is why we're here.

And I just want to thank the Secretary General for being with us. We have a few things to discuss. It was a meeting I actually looked very forward to.

He's doing a fantastic job. We've been friends. We lifted the GDP from 2 percent to 5 percent together.

So we'll be talking about various things. We'll be talking about Greenland. I imagine it may come up in our discussion.

And—but I think the trip has been amazing so far. It's been amazing.

As you know, we're staying, and tomorrow we're doing something else having to do with the Board of Peace. We're getting tremendous acceptance of that. It's going to be great. So we'll see how that all works out, but we're doing that tomorrow.

So thank you very much. Media, thank you very much.

And, Mark, would you like to say something?

Any questions?

Denmark/Greenland

I didn't call him.

Well, they didn't tell me that, so when they tell me—because I don't like getting it secondhand. If he wants to tell me, he'll tell me that to my face.

I have no idea.

I'll be discussing it with this man right here.

He's frankly more important.

Greenland

You'll have to figure that out for yourself. You're a smart guy.

Trump's Interest in Acquiring Greenland

I could see that, yes. I could see that.

Arctic Security/Missile Defense

I could see that. But there's a bigger price, and that's the price of—the price of safety and security and national security and international security having to do with many of your countries.

And, as you know, we're doing the Golden Dome. It's going to be very expensive. And it's better if we have Greenland than it is without. It's going to be safer, it's going to be stronger, it's going to be better for Europe, and it's going to be better for us.

And so, we'll see what happens.

Any other question?

Greenland/Arctic Security/Critical Minerals

Well, I hope that that's true. I mean, he's a good man. He's never lied to me before. You know, we've had a good relationship, and he made that statement, and that's nice.

I just—you know, when I see what's happening with Greenland, I wonder, because I want Greenland for security. I don't want it for anything else. We have so much rare earth, we don't know what to do with it. We don't need it for anything else.

And in terms of Greenland, you know, you have to go 25 feet down through ice to get it. It's not—it's not something that a lot of people are going to do or want to do.

No, this is security we're talking about. And I can say one thing about Mark: He wants security, and he wants security for all of us. I think it's—you know, we're a member of NATO. He wants security for NATO and beyond.

So, when he says that, Steve [Steve A. Holland, Reuters], I think it's—you know, it's very nice. Okay?

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you.
