Hello, everybody. So we have a nice, calm flight. I think the trip was great. We had a lot of good response, even from the fake news. And I think Greenland is going very well. It's in negotiation.

And I think what we did today was great. It was great. That's going to be a great Board. That will be a Board, I think, like no other. Right? That's a Board like no other. A lot of people joining. We just went out with the letters, and a lot of people are joining.

Now we have a flight back, and we'll be landing in 4 hours and 45 minutes, and I'm going to be very late for a dinner, but that will be okay.

Steve [Steve A. Holland, Reuters], go ahead.

Greenland

Well, it's really a negotiation. But it's infinity. The time limit is infinity, meaning there is no time limit. It's forever. It's—you know, you hear about 99 years and 50 years. It's forever. That was discussed.

We can do anything we want. We can do military. We can do anything we want. And it's being negotiated, and let's see what happens. I think it will be good.

There's no price. You know, there's no purchase price.

We have a lot of great things in the deal. And don't forget, they're also good for Europe, because, you know, when we're good, they're good. And if we're not good, that's not very good for them, because we hold it all together. We're holding it all together.

Greenland/North Atlantic Treaty Organization/U.S. Missile Defense

We'll be able to do whatever we want, yes. We're all going to work together. And actually, NATO is going to be involved with us. We're going to be doing it in conjunction—parts of it in conjunction with NATO, which is really the way it should be.

And we won't have any expense, because we're not going to have expenses, other than building the Golden Dome. We're going to build the Golden Dome, and we'll have participation in that also. The cost of the Golden Dome—we'll have participation in that also, meaning with the expense of it. And it'll be like no other. I mean, you know, our technology is incredible.

Greenland/Political Status With Respect to Denmark

I think everyone likes it. I mean, I think. I'll let you know in about 2 weeks.

North Atlantic Treaty Organization/Denmark

The Secretary General, Mark, is a great guy—Rutte. He's a great guy, and he's spoken to everybody.

We talked about everything.

We talked about everything, and you saw him yesterday. He was interviewed on Bret Baier, and he was very happy. He was very convinced this is a good deal for everybody.

Well, Steve Witkoff and Jared are right now on their way to Moscow, so we'll see how that works out. I had a good meeting, but I've had, you know, numerous good meetings with President Zelenskyy, and it doesn't seem to happen.

You know, it's funny, I put out a 35-year war in a day, a 32-year war in 2 days, and other wars—the worst was, like, 4 days. And this one goes on and on forever. And, actually, they may have been more complex.

Ukraine/Russia/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

We'll see. Look, it's all good. Anytime we meet, it's good. If you don't meet, nothing is going to happen. I mean, they—for the first three years, nobody met. Under Biden, nobody met. And you know one thing: If you don't meet, nothing is going to happen.

So we are meeting, and we'll see what happens. I hope we can save a lot of lives. That's all.

I can't tell you that. I mean, he'll make concessions. They're—everybody is making concessions to get it done. Europe is going to be a part of it. It's got to be a part of it.

Look, it's more for Europe than for me. I mean, I'm doing this more for Europe than for me. I'm doing it to save lives, number one. I'm doing it, secondarily, for Europe. I'm not doing it so much for the U.S.; it doesn't affect us very much. Other than the loss of lives, you know, we're not affected by this deal. It's thousands of miles away. We're separated by an ocean. But I have an ability to get things done like this, and we'll see if I can get it done.

I mean, we—it would never have gotten done. I thought Putin wanted the whole thing. Maybe he does, but he's not going to—he's not going to be going there, unless we don't make a deal.

But we had a good meeting today with President Zelenskyy—I think a very good meeting.

Steve.

Ukraine/Russia

The main holdup is the same things that have been holding it up for the last year. Look, this is a war—this is Biden's war. This isn't my war. This is a war that should have never happened. But it's complex because you have metes and bounds. You have streets, you have rivers, you have everything. You know, where does it end? So it's a little bit complicated.

But I've had that in five of the other wars. You know, there are metes and bounds. There are—it's a location. It's boundaries. And I got them done fast, in days. And this one is just going on.

And you know, what's happened here is there were times when Putin didn't want to make a deal, times when Zelenskyy didn't want to make a deal. And it was, like, opposite times. Now I think they both want to make a deal, but we'll find out.

Ukraine/Russia

I don't make any predictions. There are no changes. I think that President Putin would like to make a deal. I think that President Zelenskyy would like to make a deal.

He said he'd like to make a deal. I mean, you know, there's not much you can say. People know the parameters. It's not like—you know, we're discussing things that have been discussed for 6 or 7 months. And he came, and he said he wants to make a deal. Because I wasn't necessarily sure. I think he should want to make a deal.

It's pretty tough. It's really tough for the people of Ukraine, I'll tell you that. What—how they live, without heat, where it's 20 degrees below zero. You know, it's very cold. It's a very—that's a colder climate, for the most part, than Canada. And they live without heat.

I asked him, I mean, "How do they do that?" And he gave me an answer. It's pretty amazing what they do to live. It's no way to live.

Yes.

Greenland/Defense Contractors/U.S. Missile Defense

Well, I'd rather give it to you in 2 weeks. We'll have something in 2 weeks. There's a good spirit to get something done, and we have to have a strong freedom. We have to have the ability to do exactly what we want to do.

We have a great military. I built a great military. I did this in my first term. And continuation. Big continuation.

I think what we did with the defense companies was very important too, because we need things faster. We have the best weapons in the world, by far. We showed that last week with Venezuela. We have the best weapons in the world. We have to make them faster.

Oh, much different. Much more detail. Much more generous to the United States. It's a much more generous deal. It has to be. And we're building a Golden Dome. And you see the way it works. That is so much better for us and for Europe to have that piece of ice covered by the Golden Dome.

Interim President Delcy Rodriguez Gomez of Venezuela/Opposition Leader María Corina Machado

Yes, I know, she's been terrific.

Well, right now they're very strong leadership. I mean, they're showing very strong leadership. I also spoke with María today, and I—you know, who I like a lot. But Delcy has shown very strong leadership so far, I have to say. And we're moving in, you know, to the United States, millions of barrels of oil as we speak. You know that. You see it. You see what's happening. Over 50 million barrels of oil has already moved or moving into the United States and much more to come.

And we're working with them, and they'll get some of that, and we're going to get some of that, and it will be divided up. And our country will become richer, and that means our taxes are going to be going down. And they will do better. Venezuela is going to do better than they've ever done.

Even with us, you know, taking a very fair piece of it, Venezuela will do better, by far, than they've ever done. Going to be very rich. And she has done a very good job.

JPMorgan Chase and Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Dimon

Oh, Jamie Dimon. No, I haven't spoken to him. No, he debanked me, so we'll see if that means anything, but I think it should. You shouldn't be debanked. You get debanked if you don't have money or if you default. I have this great company, and all of a sudden, I was told, "No, you can't—you can't do that." So wrong. It's so wrong. I don't know—I don't know what their excuse would be. Maybe their excuse would be the regulators. I don't know.

But regardless, I guess it's a good lawsuit, because every pundit has come out and said Trump has a great lawsuit here. You're not allowed to do what they did. Jamie Dimon, what he did, he's not allowed to do that.

Iran/Political Demonstrations/Potential U.S. Military Involvement

We're watching Iran. We're watching Iran. You know, we have a lot of ships going that direction, just in case. We have a big flotilla going in that direction, and we'll see what happens. We have a big force going toward Iran. I'd rather not see anything happen, but we're watching them very closely.

I stopped 837 hangings on Thursday. They would have been dead. Every one of them would have been hung. This is, like, from a thousand years ago. This is an ancient culture. Very smart people, by the way, but it's an ancient culture. Eight hundred and thirty-seven—mostly young men—were going to be hung on Thursday.

And I said, if you hang those people, you're going to be hit harder than you've ever been hit. It will make what we did to your Iran nuclear look like peanuts. And an hour before this horrible thing was going to take place, they canceled it, and they actually said they canceled it. They didn't postpone it. They canceled it. So that was a good sign.

But we have an armada. We have a massive fleet heading in that direction, and maybe we won't have to use it. We'll see.

U.S. Airstrikes on Iranian Nuclear Facilities

I don't want to say right now. I don't want to get into that. But they know what we're looking for.

There's a lot of—there's a lot of killing going on.

They do.

Yes, I do. I would. I mean, they——

But you know, we've talked to them a lot. They should have made a deal before we hit them with the nuclear, because we really—that was a devastating hit. That took that whole area is out of play. And if they try and do it again, they're going to have to go to another area. We'll hit them there too just as easily, much more easily, because that was very advanced. They were building that for 10 years, and they'd have to start anew. So, you know, that was a total obliteration.

Iran/U.S. Secondary Tariffs

On who?

Yes, I am doing that. Yes, we're doing that. If you do business with Iran, you're going to have a tariff of 25 percent.

Goes into effect very soon.

Board of Peace

Well, I think they're going to want to, if—look, most countries—some countries have a prohibition, and they're going to their legislatures and getting out. In most countries, the Prime Minister or the President can sign. You saw a lot of them today. Don't forget, the letter only went out 2 days ago. We had almost 30 people already—and very important countries. But there are some countries, like Italy, who told me she wants to sign. She wants to be—desperately—but I think she has to go back to her legislative branch.

And we have that with Poland too. He said, "We want to"—he—I mean, I was the one that endorsed him. He's great, by the way. He's doing a great job—Karol. But he has to get an approval.

Some have to get an approval. Some don't. Most don't, but some do. They have, I mean, a legal requirement to get an approval.

The President's Leadership of the Board of Peace/Gaza, Palestinian Territories/The President's Foreign Policy

I have the right to be, if I want. I mean, I'll decide. We'll see what happens. But they'd like me to be. It's, in theory, for life. But I'm not sure I want that.

But it's going to do great work on Gaza and maybe other things. You know, it could be beyond Gaza. And we'll work in terms of the United Nation—with the United Nations, who—I've always said the United Nations has great potential. Great potential. But they have not lived up to the—and I say eight wars, and I never spoke to them. You'd think I would have spoken to them a lot.

But the United Nations has great potential. I think working with the Board of Peace is going to be a good thing for the United Nations.

Retirement Accounts/Homebuyer Support Programs

It's something I'm not a huge fan of. Other people like it. They're talking about taking money out to put a deposit down on a home.

And one of the reasons I don't like it is, that their 401(k)s are doing so well. You know, 401(k)s are up 80, 90 percent, in some cases. And you know, you're talking about a lot of people. We're talking about very mainstream.

And they're really doing—and the housing market is good, but the 401(k)s are doing much better than the housing market. I like keeping their 401(k)s in great shape. I like keeping their 401(k)s. I'm not a huge fan of putting down a deposit. I'm not.

I like—I'm so happy with the way 401(k)s are doing. But yes, people tell me they're up 88 percent. And over the period of a year, over a full year, it's going to be—I mean, it's going to be close to 100 percent.

Yes, Steve.

Board of Peace/Gaza, Palestinian Territories

Some of the countries have already put up a billion. Some of the countries have already put up much more than that.

I mean, that's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to the value of peace. Peace is so destructive for everyone, even countries that aren't involved. I mean, it's so destructive for everybody, when you have wars.

Federal Reserve System Leadership

Why would I tell. [Laughter] I'll be telling you soon. No, I have somebody that I think will be very good, but I'm not going to reveal it.

The President's Selection for the Chairmanship of the Federal Reserve System

Somebody that's very respected, very well-known and will do, I think, a very good job.

Board of Peace/President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia

I don't know about that. I mean, I've heard that a little. Who said that?

It's very interesting. But he said he's going to use his money?

If he's using his money, I think that's fine. Yes.

You're talking about where he said this morning——

——he's going to join the Board of Peace and he's going to make a contribution of a billion dollars. Yes, but using his money. I mean, if he's using his money, that's great. I think it's important to have everybody in.

Chairman of the Federal Reserve System Board of Governors Jerome H. Powell

No, I'm not concerned. I mean, we'll have to see what happens. He's too late. Just always too late. Despite that, we have interest rates going down. And also, he's, you know, building a small complex for the Fed building, and they're close—they're going to be close to $4 billion. It's the most expensive job, and it's a renovation. It's the most expensive job per square foot ever built of any kind. It's either gross incompetence, or it's worse.

The President's Selection for the Chairmanship of the Federal Reserve System

Yes, I'm done. Okay?

Stock Market/Tariffs

The market reaction has been good. It was up very big today. It was up big yesterday. It's where it started. Very close to 50,000 on the Dow. And nobody thought you could be breaking 50,000 during the first year. So we'll see what happens.

No, pretty much even, right? It's just about even.

The market was up. As of yesterday, the market came up very nicely.

Credit Card Interest Rates

Yes.

No, I mean, I'd like to see it. The people—the credit card companies are getting 28-percent interest. So a guy goes out, he—they don't even know it. You know, these are people—regular people. They don't know that they're paying 28 percent. And then it's a little bit overdue, and they end up having to file for bankruptcy. We're not going to let that happen.

So it's a—it's a 1-year 10-percent cap on credit cards. We have to get that approved by Congress too. So, you know, that's not a no-brainer. It should be a no-brainer, but it's not.

Venezuelan Opposition Leader María Corina Machado/News Media

I did, yes. I called her.

Just to say we have very good relationship. Just to say how it. She's a good woman, a very nice woman. She's been through a lot. And, at the same time, I'll tell you, they're doing a very good job in Venezuela. So it's interesting.

I get along with both sides. I get along with everybody, but the media. You know, the fake news and I don't get along, but I get along with everybody else.

Venezuela/Oil Market and Prices/Consumer Prices

I want to see how they do. First of all, they—after—you know, we have to take in a lot of money. We have to get that back. Right now they're not living well because of what's gone on for years—years. Really, it's years of socialism and worse. It's really, you know, worse than socialism.

But we're going to start drilling very soon. We have the biggest companies in the world. We have them. And they're going to be going in. They're all negotiating right now. And we're representing the nation, and the nation is very thrilled by that, because we're really good at this.

And they'll be taking in more money than they ever have, but we'll be taking in a lot of money too. That's going to do two things: It's going to make the United States a lot of money, and it's also—I mean, it's going to make Venezuela a lot of money, but it's also going to bring down oil prices even further.

We—you know, we have oil prices down, in many cases, to $2.30 a gallon. And in also numerous cases, $1.99—below $2. It was $4.50, $5, $3.90. I mean, prices are coming down very rapidly, including groceries, including just about everything. And they're starting to come down even more. We're getting them low.

I inherited very high prices. You know, when they talk about affordability, they caused it. I inherited very high prices, and we've done a great job. Prices have come down a lot and, I would say, led by energy. We're pumping more oil right now—we're drilling more oil than at any time in the history of our country, by far.

When you add Venezuela to it, it's a tremendous part of the market.

Federal Reserve System

Well, we'll see.

We'll see. I mean, I listened to some, I read some of it, and I didn't get that impression other than they thought maybe it should have gone through a more normal court system.

But nobody was saying she's innocent. What they're saying is maybe it should have been a longer process. But—so we'll see what happens.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Right.

Terrible. Yes. Well, we—nobody knows the number. I mean, I—it's a lot no matter what. Hey, if it was one person—in this country, if it's one person, it's, you know, front-page news. It's a lot of people. It's—but you know, there's a difference between a lot and 20,000 people.

So, we'll find out what it is. We're going to find out exactly what it is.

Health Insurance Reforms/Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act

I have.

Soon. Very soon. With the biggest company, yes. We have. I mean, what I'd like to see is that the money is paid not to the health insurance—or not to the insurance companies; directly to the people, into a health care account, savings account, and the people buy their own health care.

Now, the Democrats don't like that, because they're owned by the insurance companies. The Democrats are owned by the insurance companies. Obamacare—and I said this for a long time—Obamacare was set up for the insurance companies. They made a fortune. A thousand points—they're going up 1,000, 1,250, 1,359 percent. That's all the money pouring in.

I want the money go to—directly to the people. Let the people buy their own health care. Now, their health care is going to be better, and they'll be paying less money. It's going to be amazing. But we have to get the Democrats to support it, most likely.

Yes.

China/U.S. Agriculture Industry

Well, I've been great to the farmers. The farmers have been great. I helped them out when we were going through the difficulty with China, which we saw. China is buying a lot of product right now, as you know—but while we had that negotiation. And I gave them, you know, billions of dollars, and they were very happy.

No, the farmers like Trump, and I like the farmers. I won their vote very—I won almost all aspects of a lot of—look at the autoworkers, how well I did with the Teamsters, the autoworkers. But the farmers have been very special to me, very successful, all three terms. I won it all the time.

So I think they're really happy, the farmers, with what's happening.

2026 Midterm Elections/Tax Code Reform

Well, my only concern is that Presidents never win. You know, what is it, two times in 50 years? Democrat or Republican. Even—I mean, nobody had a better first year than I did. Look at what we've done.

We have the greatest economy in the world. We have the greatest investment in a country in history, by many times. Nobody has ever had that. Think of it: $18 trillion. We have thousands of businesses being built right now, and they're going to be opening soon, and it's going to be amazing.

Also, the "Great Big Beautiful Bill" kicks in now. You know, now and over the next couple of months. That's going to have a huge impact, when you have no tax on tips, no tax on Social Security, no tax on overtime. That's going to have a huge impact. Also, the one-year depreciation is big for businesses. They're going to have to hire a lot of people.

So I don't think there's ever been anything like it. I think we're going to have—we have a great country. We have our country back. We were a dead country, and now we're great.

The President's Schedule/2026 Midterm Elections/Border Security

I'm going to do a lot of campaign traveling, I hate to tell you guys. But it's going to keep you employed. No, we're going to work hard.

I mean, the only problem with that question is, for whatever reason—it's a deep-down psychological reason—sitting Presidents that won, even that won big—we won big; all seven swing States, the popular vote—sitting Presidents don't seem to do well in the midterms. I guess, over a 50-year period, they won twice. So I don't know what that is. That's something down deep. You'd have to ask a—really, a psychiatrist about that.

But we should do great. We won the election big. The border is now great. The border is the best we've ever had. The border is the best there is anywhere in the world. Look at some of the European countries, what happened. They wish they had our border, and they tell me that openly. They wish they had our border, and they have to do something about immigration.

China-U.S. Relations/Domestic Agriculture Production

I don't know, but I'm going to make a trip. We're going to—we have—I'm going in April. He'll come toward the end of the year.

And I look forward to seeing President Xi. I've always had—his wife is fantastic. He's an amazing guy, and I've always had a great relationship. President Xi of China—always had a great relationship with him. It was a very strained relationship during COVID, but now it's an excellent relationship.

Look, you see that. Look at all the farm product they're buying now. The soybeans, they're—they're buying a lot of soybeans, and that makes our farmers happy, and that makes me happy.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

Bruising on the President's Hand

Yes, I'm very good. My hand.

I clipped it on the table. So I put a little—what do they call it?—cream on it. But I clipped it.

I would say: Take aspirin if you like your heart, but don't take aspirin if you don't want to have a little bruising. You know, if you take the big—I take the big aspirin, and when you take the big aspirin, they tell you you bruise. The doctor said: "You don't have to take that, sir. You're very healthy." I said, "I'm not taking any chances."

So, anyway. But the—that's one of the side effects of taking aspirin.

Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it.
