Health Insurance Reforms

It's going to be a tremendous—it is a tremendous plan. It's called the Great Health Care Plan, and we're going to get tremendous reductions, as you know, through—if you look at medicines and prescription drugs, they're going to come down by numbers that have never seen—been seen before.

And we're doing that by most favored nations. The other nations, whoever pays the lowest in the world, that's what we're going to pay. Right now we're paying 10—sometimes 10 times higher than other nations. So we have favored nations. That's been approved. Other nations have, for the most part, agreed to it. And they had no choice. Otherwise, we were going to put tariffs on them.

So the health care plan that we're coming—the money is going to pay—be paid directly to the people. So it goes directly—not to the companies, not to the insurance companies. It's going to go directly to the people, and the people are going to buy their own health care. They'll get much better health care at a much-reduced cost.

North Atlantic Treaty Organization/Greenland

Well, we're going to see. NATO has been dealing with us on Greenland. We need Greenland for national security very badly. If we don't have it, we have a big hole in national security, especially when it comes to what we're doing in terms of the Golden Dome and all of the other things.

We have a lot of investments in military. We have got the strongest military in the world, and it's only getting stronger. And you saw that with Venezuela. You saw that with the attack on Iran, with the knocking out their nuclear capability, potentially.

So yes, we're going to—we're talking to NATO. We're talking.

North Atlantic Treaty Organization

I don't talk about that.

Go ahead.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Well, we're going to see. As you know, Iran canceled the hanging of over 800 people. They were going to hang over 800 people yesterday, and I greatly respect the fact that they canceled that.

Canada/China

Well, that's okay. That's what he should be doing. I mean, it's a good thing for him to sign a trade deal. If you can get a deal with China, you should do that.

[Several reporters spoke at once.] Go.

Iran

Nobody convinced me. I convinced myself. You had, yesterday, scheduled over 800 hangings. They didn't hang anyone. They canceled the hangings. That had a big impact.

Nobel Prize for Peace/Venezuelan Opposition Leader María Corina Machado

Right.

Well, she offered it to me. I thought it was very nice. She said, "You know, you've ended eight wars, and nobody deserves this prize more than—in history—than you do." And I thought it was a very nice gesture.

And by the way, I think she's a very fine woman, and we'll be talking again.

Say it.

The President's Executive Authority

Well, the Insurrection Act—which has been used by 48 percent of the presidents, as of this moment—the Insurrection Act. Also, if you look at it—I believe it was Bush—the elder Bush, he used it, I think, 28 times. It's been used a lot.

And if I needed it, I'd use it. I don't think there's any reason right now to use it. But if I needed it, I'd use it. It's very powerful.

Iraq/Venezuelan Opposition Leader María Corina Machado

Well, if you ever remember a place called Iraq, where everybody was fired—every single person: the police, the generals. Everybody was fired, and they ended up being ISIS. Instead of just getting down to business, they ended up being ISIS. So I remember that.

But I'll tell you, I had a great meeting yesterday by a person who I have a lot of respect for, and she has respect, obviously, for me and our country. And she gave me her Nobel Prize.

But I'll tell you what. I got to know her. I never met her before, and I was very, very impressed. She's a really—this is a fine woman.

March for Life in Washington, DC

Yes.

Well, you know what I tell them? You're going to hear about it, because I just taped a beautiful piece for them, and they're going to play it. And those are great people. I want to tell you, they're great people.

Thank you very much. Thank you very much, everybody.
