Wow. What a nice grouping this is. This is really nice. Look at this. Any que-—it's going to be very rough in about 10 minutes, so we'll have to go a little bit quickly. They just said very, very rough.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Well, no, they're starting to, it looks like. And there seem to be some people killed that aren't supposed to be killed. These are violent—if you call them leaders—I don't know if they're leaders or just a—they rule through violence.

But we're looking at it very seriously. The military is looking at it. And we're looking at some very strong options. We'll make a determination.

Well, why would I tell you that? I'm going to tell you the answer.

——am I going to really—are you asking me to say what will I do, where will we attack, when and at what angle will we attack from?

Who are you with?

What network are you with?

Oh. Well, why don't you just say, "I'm with CNN"? She says, "I'm with the White House pool."

And I say, "What"—you're with CNN. You're with——

You're with fake news.

Because CNN is fake news.

Go ahead. Give me a—give me a question.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Well, we're going to see. I mean, some of the protesters were killed through the stampeding. I mean, you know, there's so many of them. And some were shot. We're getting a full report. I'm getting an hourly report. And we're going to make a determination.

Yes, go ahead.

Iran

——the son of the deposed Shah and some military leaders are encouraging you to take action in Iran. Are you—are—is that a serious option, and are U.S.——

Well, no, people have been shot, and we're looking at it.

Yes, please.

Venezuela

I may go at some point. Yes, sure. We're doing well. Venezuela is really working out well. We're working along really well with their leadership, and we'll see how it all works out.

Interim President Delcy Rodriguez Gomez of Venezuela

At some point I'll meet. Yes. She's been very good. Look, she asked us can we take 50 million barrels of oil, and I said, yes, we can. It's 4 billion—$4.2 billion. And it's on its way right now to the United States, by the way.

I'm looking for something to grab here, because it's getting—it's going to get rough. And I don't seem to be in a very—I think you did this to me. You put me in a position where there's absolutely nothing to grab. So I'm looking for something to grab, and it's not going to be Karoline.

[Inaudible]

White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt. What about this? How's that?

The President's Meeting With Oil and Gas Executives

A lot of them. Yes.

No, I don't want to say. No, I didn't like Exxon's response. I—you know, we have so many that want it. I'd probably be inclined to keep Exxon out. I didn't like their response. They're playing too cute.

Venezuela/Oil Supply and Refining

Well, we're going to have guarantees that they're going to be safe, that there's going to be no problem, and there won't be. There's not going to be a problem. They had problems in the past because they didn't have Trump as a President. They had stupid people.

You, talk up.

Cuba

You're going to find out pretty soon. We're talking to Cuba, and you'll find out pretty soon.

And one of the things I want taken care of and one of the groups I want taken care of, are the people that came from Cuba that were forced out or left under duress, and they're great citizens of the United States right now.

You have a lot of people forced out of Cuba unfairly.

So we're going to take care of—most importantly, right now, we're going to take care of the people that came from Cuba that are American citizens or in our country.

Venezuela/Oil Supply and Refining

Well, we have a lot of oil people really interested. You saw that the other day. That was just a small group, because the room in the White House—we need it—we need the ballroom, actually. We could have filled up the ballroom, practically. We have so many people that want to go in for oil. So you saw the great—some great companies.

Iran/Satellite Internet Connectivity/SpaceX

Well, we're going to—we're going to be talking about that. We may get the internet going, if that's possible.

We may speak to Elon——

——because, as you know, he's very good at that kind of thing. He's got a very good company. So we may speak to Elon Musk. And in fact, I'm going to call him as soon as I'm finished with you.

Iran/The President's Approach to Foreign Policy

Well, if they do that, we'll consider things targets they wouldn't—that they wouldn't believe. If they do that, we will hit them at levels that they've never been hit before. They won't even believe it. I have——

I have options that are so strong. So, I mean, if they did that, it will be met with a very, very powerful force.

I think so. Don't you think so? CNN, don't you think so? Wouldn't you say that they probably do at this point? After going through it for years with me, being hit—Soleimani, al-Baghdadi, the Iran nuclear threat wiped out—don't you think—and then you just had Venezuela. Don't you think—she says, CNN, "Do you think they take your threat seriously?" Wouldn't you say they do after all of the things we've done? What a stupid question.

Go ahead.

Iran/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

I am. Yes. I am.

Venezuelan Opposition Leader María Corina Machado

I don't know. I hear Tuesday or Wednesday. I look forward to that.

Board of Peace

We have a Board of Peace that's being formed, but, essentially, it's the most important leaders of the most important nations. All nations, but the most important—you take the most important leaders and nations; that's who the Board of Peace is going to be. Everybody wants to be on it.

Greenland

Who are you with?

Well, I like the New York Post. New York Post treats me semifairly, so go ahead.

On where? Military action——

Look, if we don't take Greenland, Russia or China will, and I'm not letting that happen. If we don't take Greenland, Russia or China will take Greenland, and I am not going to let that happen.

Yes, sure. I'd rather—I'd love to buy—make a deal with them. It's easier. But one way or the other, we're going to have Greenland.

North Atlantic Treaty Organization/Ukraine/U.S. Security Assistance

Well, I think I've done a great job. I'm the one that saved NATO. I'm the one that got them to pay 5 points—5 percent of GDP.

Wait a minute. It was 2 percent, and they didn't pay. Now they're paying 5 percent. I'm the one that saved NATO. You wouldn't have NATO if I weren't president.

Well, maybe NATO would be upset if I did it. Maybe NATO would—it would save a lot of money. But I like NATO, you know. I just wonder whether or not if we needed NATO, would they be there for us. I'm not sure they would. You know, we spent a lot of money on NATO, and I'm not sure they would.

Now, what's happened is, as you know, Sleepy Joe Biden gave $350 billion to Ukraine and got nothing for it. I got rare earth back. I got, I think, value back far greater than that. But—and that's what he should have done.

Now, if you look at what's going on with respect to NATO, we have a very good relationship, 5 percent GDP, and they pay us. We send them military equipment, and they pay us back the full cost of the equipment. The war is—we make money with the war, but I don't even want to talk about that.

I want to save the lives. They're Russian and Ukrainian lives. I want to save the lives. That's the only reason I'm doing it. This is Biden's war. It should have never happened. Would have never happened if I were President. This is Biden's war; it's not Trump's war.

All I can do is stop it, and I think we're making progress toward stopping it, which would be number nine and a quarter. You know what the quarter is, right? Right? Thailand and Cambodia went at it again, but I got it stopped very quickly. I consider that one quarter of a war.

Greenland

No, I'm not—I haven't done that. But Greenland should make the deal, because Greenland does not want to see Russia or China take over. They don't go there. It's very far away from Greenland. And Greenland—basically, their defense is two dogsleds. Do you know that? You know what their defense is? Two dogsleds.

In the meantime, you have Russian destroyers and submarines and China destroyers and submarines all over the place. We're not going to let that happen. And if it affects NATO, then it affects NATO. But, you know, they need us much more than we need them. I will tell you that right now.

That's a war that should have never happened with Ukraine.

Greenland/Arctic Security

No. Look——

Look, we're talking about acquiring, not leasing, not having it short term. We're talking about acquiring. And—

And if we don't do it, Russia or China will, and that's not going to happen when I'm President.

Well, we have bases on Greenland, yes.

I could put a lot of soldiers there right now, if I want. But you need more than that. You need ownership. You really have—you really need title, as they say in the real estate business.

Death of Renee Nicole Good in Minneapolis, Minnesota/U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

Well, everyone has seen it, and the woman was very violent. She's a, you know, very radical person. Very sad what happened. Her friend was very radical. You know, "go" or "drive, drive." And——

Well, I'm going to let the people define it. But immunity—you know what immunity—what—knows is—means as well as I do.

But you know, people can't be treating law enforcement that way, whether it's ICE or Border Patrol or our police and—men and women. You can't—you can't do that.

We have—you know, the law enforcement in our country is doing really well, despite the fact that Sleepy Joe Biden allowed people to pour through an open border. Crime stats just came out. We have the best crime stats on record despite all the criminals he allowed into our country. We've gotten a lot of them out. We have to respect our law enforcement.

At a very minimum, that woman was very, very disrespectful to law enforcement. And you heard the same noises. You saw the same crunch that I saw. You can't do that with law enforcement, whether it's police or ICE or Border Patrol or anybody else.

Yes.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement/Illegal Immigration/Border Security

Well, no. If somebody is obviously crazy and does something wrong, no. But generally speaking—I mean, these people have been harassed; they're threatened every day. They had bands out playing so they couldn't sleep at the hotel. I see what they're doing to them. They're threatening them constantly. And all they're doing is doing what I got elected on.

We had millions of people that came into our country that are horrible people that shouldn't be in our country. They're murderers. They're drug dealers. They're people from mental institutions. They're the criminally insane. They're people from prisons. They were allowed to come into our country because Biden was a stupid person, and the people surrounding him—very smart, very vicious, but they have no common sense, and they're radicalized people. They're radical-left people, not radical-right. They're radical-left people.

And all they're doing is what I campaigned on. I won in a landslide. We won all seven swing states. We won the popular vote. We won the districts. We won everything. We won the counties—we won the counties by 79 percent, I believe. I campaigned on a great border, and now we have a great border.

But Biden let 25 million people come into this country, and many of those people are criminals, including 11,888 murderers. And we want them out. And I won on that.

Now, people don't talk about it because the border is so—so secure. Nobody wants to talk about it anymore. The border was one of the reasons I won the election. I've done such a good job on it that nobody wants to talk about it anymore. The border is totally secure.

And now, the crime stats just came out, and they're the best numbers since they were taken—and that's, like, 50 years ago. We have the best crime numbers despite the fact that a lot of criminals were allowed into our country.

We have to respect our law enforcement.

Death of Renee Nicole Good in Minneapolis, Minnesota

It was highly disrespectful of law enforcement. The woman and her friend were highly disrespectful of law enforcement. You saw that. They were harassing. They were following for days and for hours. And I think, frankly, they're professional agitators.

And I'd like to find out, and we are going to find out, who's paying for it.

With their brandnew signs and all the different things. But these are professional agitators.

And law enforcement should not be in a position where they have to put up with this stuff. What that woman and what her friend and what their other friends were doing to law enforcement—not just ICE, law enforcement—is outrageous.

Domestic Manufacturing Investment

I'm going to be making a trip to Detroit to talk about our unbelievable amount of factories that are opening up all over the country, many of which are car factories and car plants. We have manufacturing plants opening up at levels that nobody has ever seen before because of tariffs. If we didn't have tariffs, you wouldn't have them opening; although, they were very happy with the November 5 election.

But we have—from Canada they're coming, from Mexico they're coming, from Germany, from Japan, from all over Europe, and from Japan, other places, and from China. They're opening up car factories, car manufacturing plants at levels that we've never seen before.

So I'm going to Detroit because they're going to be opening up plants in Detroit or redoing plants, but they're really ripping down all plants and building new.

We are going to be—we're the hottest country right now anywhere in the world. I mean, think of it. A year and a half ago, we were a dead country, and now we're the hottest country anywhere in the world.

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act/Premium Subsidies

I might, yes. I might.

Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Florida

No. I know nothing about it.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

I don't know that they're trying to please me. They named a boulevard after me, but—that's pretty pleasing—but I don't think they're trying to please. I think they just want peace. They want to have freedom. The protesters are after freedom. Iran has not allowed freedom for a long time. And the protesters, I don't think they're trying please—appease me. They're trying to get somebody to help them. They're under siege. And now it looks like they're being shot, which is a very bad thing.

Yes.

Yes. You're going to find out pretty soon.

Yes, go ahead. With the beautiful red hair. [Laughter]

Documentary Film "Melania"

We're coming up with the premiere of "Melania." Have you seen the movie yet? And what are your thoughts on it?

I've seen pieces of it. It's incredible, I tell you. I think it's——

——going to do very—you know, she did a book, and the book was a big, number-one bestseller. And this is a movie, and it seems to be captivating a lot of people's attention. It's very good.

She goes, "Here we go again."

Yes, it's going to be doing the premiere at the Trump-Kennedy Center. Yes. It will be very exciting. It's a very hard ticket, I can tell you. Everybody—Wayne Gretzky and his wife Janet, beautiful wife, great wife, they said last night, "Gee, I want to go to"—a lot of—everybody wants tickets to the premiere. I think it's going to be great.

Mortgage Market Stabilization Efforts

On the what? Mortgage?

No, they're already doing it. They've started.

Yes, they started the process, and it's having a great impact. Interest rates are falling very rapidly—not only for that reason, for other reasons too. But interest rates are falling very rapidly.

With no help from the Fed, because we have a total stiff at the Fed.

Credit Cart Interest Rates

Yes.

Well, then they're in violation of the law. Very severe things.

No, I want a cap on credit card interest rates because, you know, some of them are 28, almost 30 percent. And that—the people don't know they're paying 30 percent. The people out there, you know, they're working. They have no idea that they're paying 30 percent. No way.

I—we're putting a 1-year cap at 10 percent, and that's it. They know it. They really—they've really abused the public. The credit card companies have totally abused. I'm not going to let it happen.

Iran/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts

With Iran?

They do. They called——

——yesterday.

Iran called to negotiate, yes.

Yesterday. The leaders of Iran called. They want to negotiate. I think they're tired of being beat up by the United States.

Iran wants to negotiate, yes.

We may meet with them. I mean, it's—a meeting is being set up, but we may have to act because of what's happening before the meeting. But a meeting is being set up. Iran called. They want to negotiate.

Thank you very much, everybody.

Be careful. A lot of bumps.

East Potomac Golf Links/Federal Law Enforcement Support in the District of Columbia

Yes, we're going to make it a beautiful, world-class, U.S. Open–caliber course. And ideally, we're going to have major tournaments there and everything else. It's going to bring a lot of business into Washington.

By the way, the crime stats just came out on Washington, DC. There is virtually no crime. It's gone from tremendous crime, murder and everything else. There's virtually no crime in Washington, DC. Thank you, President Trump.

Thank you very much, everybody.
