Hello, everybody. This is Bill Ford, and he's just expanded the plant and went to 24 hours—24-hour shifts. And Jim Farley, you know. Everybody knows Jim. He's a legend in the industry.

But they're just saying their business is better than ever. They did—they're doing 24 hours, Jim, now?

Ford Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer James D. Farley. Yes. Six days a week.

Around the clock. And they do expansions. And they're building more plants in the United States because of tariffs. And Jim said, and Bill very strongly confirmed, they've never seen anything like it. In all of the years that they've been in business, they've never seen what's happening now like it. So it's a great honor. But so, this plant—you might talk about it—this plant goes 24 hours, around the clock. Before it used to go 3 hours around the clock. [Laughter]

Ford Motor Co. Executive Chair William C. Ford, Jr. No, it will. So, we're adding a third shift, and it's going to be running, as the president said, 24 hours, 6 days a week. And that just shows the demand there is for this product, which we—is the best selling product, as you all know, in America. And it just gets hotter and hotter.

So we have a great relationship with the President and his whole staff. They've been great to work with for us. He personally is incredibly responsive every time we need something or call. We very much appreciate it.

And we—you know, we couldn't be more excited. We're adding market share. We're growing as a company. We're adding jobs—not just here, but elsewhere. And yes, this is—times are good for us.

And all of the U.S. automakers now are doing great, and before, they were having a really hard time. You couldn't—the environmentalists wouldn't—would not have let them survive.

Mexico-U.S. Trade/Canada-U.S. Trade

I don't even think about USCMA. I mean, you know, I want to see Canada and Mexico do well. But the problem is, we don't need their product. You know, we don't need cars made in Canada. We don't need cars made in Mexico. We want to make them here, and that's what's happening. Everybody's moving here. From Canada, they're coming here. From Mexico, from Japan, from Germany, from all over the world, they're coming here, and they're opening up their plants.

Bill is lucky because he's had a lot here, but when he doesn't have it here, he's moving here. They're doing big expansions—Ford. But they're all doing great. We're—the car industry is exciting.

And to be honest with you, Bill, every industry exciting.

——gasoline from a glass. It was crazy.

But very proud of them. And Ford has really been a leader. They've done—great job. But all of them—General Motors is doing really well. Stellantis is doing really well. We're really happy about it. They—I just wanted to build their product in the U.S.A.

U.S. Trade Agreement With Mexico and Canada

Well, I can. It expires very shortly. And we could have it or not. It wouldn't matter to me.

I think they want it. I don't really care about it.

Mexico-U.S. Trade/Canada-U.S. Trade/U.S. Automobile Industry

No real advantage to us. It's irrelevant to me. Canada would love it. Canada wants it. They need it, because we don't need Canada product. That's the thing. You know, I want to be a nice person, but we don't need—I want to build the cars here, not in Canada.

We used to build the cars in Canada. Now the Canada cars—the Canadians are moving here to build cars. Same thing with Mexico. Same thing with Japan. Japan's paid us billions and billions of dollars for the privilege of making cars here and selling cars here.

U.S. Automobile Industry

The quality is unbelievable. So we're at a Ford 150 plant. And I don't know that much about cars, but I know how to get people working. And all I can tell you is that people talk so much about the 150, and it has been for a long time. They make a great product, a quality product better than anybody else can make in Europe or in any other location.

Look, the Ford 150 has done well for a long time because they make a great product.

China-U.S. Trade/Domestic Manufacturing Investment/Tariffs

Well, as you know, we have a tariff on Chinese autos. And in Europe, China is taking over the auto business—I would say, as a nice statement——

Right? Pretty good, right?

Who would've thought that was going to happen? Right?

Everybody said that the cars are dead in the United States. If you go back four years ago, into the middle of the Biden administration, everybody was closing up their plants.

Now we have more plants being built in our country than at any time in history. They're—nobody has ever seen anything like it. And it's the election, November 5, and it's other things, but it's also—I think it may be the biggest part—the election, because I'm the tariff person.

And everybody now admits that I was right on tariffs. And I hope that we win the Supreme Court case.

Canada-U.S. Trade/Critical Minerals Supply Chain

Well, we get it, but we have a lot of our own raw materials. And you know, the word "raw" and "rare" are a little bit of a misnomer. They're not very rare. You have a lot of places that want to sell us material, and we get it from a lot of different countries, and we have a lot of rare earth and raw materials in this country.

Federal Reserve System

Well, that's why Thom is not going to be a Senator any longer, I guess. Right?

But I like Thom Tillis. He's a nice guy, but look, he's not going to be a senator any longer because of views like that.

We have a bad Fed Chairman. He's bad in a lot of different ways, but he's bad because his interest rates were too high.

And today we had a great inflation report, and today we had a really great growth report. So, we have great growth and low inflation. And we're doing very well.

Chairman of the Federal Reserve System Board of Governors Jerome H. Powell

I don't know. With this guy, you don't know. He's got some problems.

But what he also did—he's building a small—he's renovating a small building. It's the most expensive construction job in history, and it's only a renovation. I could have done that job for $25 million. They're spending billions and billions of dollars. He either doesn't know what he's doing, or it's worse than that. And you know what I mean by worse. So, hopefully, he'll be out of there soon.

Federal Reserve System Leadership

No.

I don't know. Sometime in the next few weeks.

U.S. Automobile Industry/Tariffs

No. No, I came here because we're friends—the three of us—because I have helped the company a lot.

I mean, as an example, trucks. I put a 25-percent tariff on trucks coming into the United States, and their truck business went through the roof.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

You're going to have to figure that one out. I'm sorry.

Government Suppression of Protests in Iran

Nobody has been able to give me an accurate number. I have heard numbers from—everything is a lot. One is a lot. But I've heard numbers much lower, and I've heard numbers much higher. We'll be knowing—we're probably going to find out over the next 24 hours. I think it's a lot.

It's too many, whatever it is.

Oil Prices

I'd love to see that, yes. I mean, we're at $68—we're at $58 now. I'd like to see $53.

Thank you very much, everybody.

Situation in Iran/Safety of U.S. Citizens

I would say it's a good idea if U.S. people evacuated, yes.

I would say they could—it's not a bad idea if they got out.

I think they should get out.
