So we had great numbers introduced today. We had a wonderful speech in front of great people in Detroit, mostly in the car business. And we're setting records in manufacturing. It's going very well. I think people appreciated what I had to say, in terms of the numbers. So we're very happy about that.

I'm going back to the White House now. We're going to look at the whole situation that's going on in Iran. It's really bad stuff. Minnesota is going to have to take care of itself for a little while. We have tremendous theft and fraud going on in that State because you have an incompetent Governor—grossly incompetent Governor and a corrupt Governor. But we'll straighten that out.

But the—Iran is on my mind. When I see the kind of death that is happening over there, we think—so, we're going to get some accurate numbers. I'll have it in about 20 minutes. We'll get some accurate numbers as to what's happening with regard to the killing. The killing looks like it's significant, but we don't know yet for certain. I'll know within 20 minutes. So—and we will act accordingly.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Well, you never know, do you? You never know.

So far, my track record has been excellent, but you never know.

Iran/U.S. Response Options

Well, I can't tell you that. I know exactly what it would be. We have to make a decision. But I can't be—obviously, I can't be telling you. [Laughter]

Federal Reserve System

Yes, I think it's fine what I'm doing. We're having a bad Fed person. He was extended by Biden. And yes, I think he's wrong. I think it's wrong.

He's done a bad job. We should have lower rates. Jamie Dimon probably wants higher rates. Maybe he makes more money that way.

Credit Card Interest Rates

Credit Card Interest Rates

No, I'm not. I think the people that are paying 28-percent interest should be protected. We're talking about for a one-year period. But when you have a bank—whether it's Jamie Dimon or anybody else—charging people 28, 32 percent, 30 percent, 31 percent—one case, 35 percent—no, I'll help those people. That's all right.

Federal Funding for "Sanctuary Cities"

That's right.

You'll see. It will be significant.

Health Insurance Reforms

Yes. I'm going to meet with the insurance companies, but I want the money to go directly to the people—it's very simple—into a health care savings account, but directly to the people, so the people can buy their own health care.

China-U.S. Trade

Yes, we can.

We're doing very well with China. I have a great relationship with President Xi, as you obviously know. We're doing really well. We're making a lot of money with China.

Yes. I think so, yes. I think it's going to happen.

Iran

Yes.

Yes. Iran said that the last time I blew them up with the nuclear capability, which they don't have any longer. So Iran said that the last time. They'd better behave.

Intel Corporation/Federal Government Ownership Stake

Yes. I like Intel. Well, I don't know about Intel. But I'll invest more in other things.

As you know, Intel came to see me. They needed help. And I said, "I'll help you, but I want 10 percent of your company to go to the United States of America." And we made, because of that deal, tens of billions of dollars. The stock went very up and very high, and we made tens of billions of dollars.

We got—they walked away, and they gave us a lot of money. But they did a great deal for themselves because their stock has gone up. As soon as we went in, Apple went in, Nvidia went in. A lot of smart people went in. They followed us.

So, yes, we're doing that. We've done other of those deals. In Alaska, we did a deal where we got a big piece of a company, where we were helping them to get a road. We're the only ones that could have done it. And we said we want something out of the company for the United States of America. Okay? So I believe in that. We have some other ones that we're looking at. I believe in that.

If it's up to us—if they can't do it without us—and then I say, "Well, we'll do it." If you were a private guy, you'd say, "What do we get for doing it?" Now, I don't want anything for myself. I want it to—I want our country to be rich as hell. But with Intel, we made billions and billions of dollars, right?

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Yes, the message is, they've got to show humanity. They've got a big problem, and I hope they're not going to be killing people. And I'm going to have a report very soon. It would seem to me that they have been badly misbehaving, but that is not confirmed.

1980 U.S. Hostage Rescue Mission in Iran/Venezuela

Well, it was a disaster for Jimmy Carter. They had all sorts of problems. And the helicopters were crashing and everything. You know what it was? The exact opposite of Venezuela. Do you agree with that? Do you agree——

——as a reporter? Who are you with?

Oh, good. Well, that's a nice paper.

Iran/Potential U.S. Military Involvement

Why would I tell you that?

Why would I?

I don't talk about military strategy with a reporter, you know? Even though I do like the Financial Times.

Iran/U.S. Diplomatic Efforts/Political Demonstrations

Yes.

Well, I'm not going to tell you what they're telling me.

I don't tell you what they——

You think they are? It's only been a couple of days.

Well, they said that about Venezuela too, you know. It's only been a couple of days. They haven't defied me. They haven't done anything, as far as we're concerned. But it looks like they're killing a lot of people. But it has not been confirmed. I'll know very soon.

Greenland

Who said that?

Well, that's their problem. That's their problem. I disagree with him. I don't know who he is. Don't know anything about him. But that's going to be a big problem for him.

Iran/Political Demonstrations

Ideally, I'd like to see it. But what we want to see is, we don't want to see people killed. And we want to see a little bit of freedom for these people. These people have been living in hell for a long time. You know, that used to be a hell of a country. I have friends that used to invest in Iran, and they did well with their investments. It was a great place. The people were great. Even the leadership was good. And now it's living in hell.

Thank you very much, everybody.
