Title: Remarks During Telerally for Virgina Republican Gubernatorial Candidate Winsome Earle-Sears and Attorney General Candidate Jason S. Miyares
Date: November 03, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-during-telerally-for-virgina-republican-gubernatorial-candidate-winsome-earle

Well, thank you very much, Glenn. And thank you, most importantly, for being a great Governor, one of the great Governors in our country, and we're very proud of you and the job you've done.

I want to give a very special hello to Virginia. There's a big time coming up. The whole world is watching you. And tomorrow is election day, as you know, in your Commonwealth, and the key races are still in play. They're very close, including Governor, Lieutenant Governor, attorney general, and the legislature is all up. And vote Republican.

You know, just—if I just cover one subject: Your energy prices will go way down, as opposed to your energy prices going through the roof. Just that one subject alone is so big.

But every Virginia patriot should get out and vote—and all Republican up and down the line. It's so important. Go out.

If you want to get a little information: swampthevoteUSA.com. SwampthevoteUSA.com for more information about where and how to vote tomorrow on election day. Polls will open from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., and hopefully, we're going to have a big celebration at the end. It will be a big, big celebration. So please go out and vote.

The entire Democrat ticket in Virginia is totally unfit to hold office, frankly. I mean, they are the worst. Their candidate for Virginia attorney general is a—as our great Governor said, he's a demented person, radical-left maniac named Jay Jones, whose poll numbers are way down, but we still have to go out and vote.

Remember our election, we said, "Too big to rig." We don't want to take any chances. Get out and vote.

But Jay Jones was caught on text message—messages fantasizing about shooting his Republican colleague in the head and killing his children. It's not even believable. When I heard it, I said, "That's not believable," but it turned out to be true. He said the Republican parents deserve to watch their children die because they're raising little fascists. They should all die, he said.

Virginia cannot allow someone with dreams of committing murder become the commonwealth's top law enforcement officer. And I think—you know, you have maybe the best attorney—one of the best attorney generals, but maybe the best. Jason Miyares is a fantastic man, a fantastic attorney general, is acknowledged by everybody to be, like, top. And he is my complete and total endorsement.

During Jason's term, violent crime in Virginia has declined by 13 percent, and we have to give the Governor a lot of credit for that too; drug overdose deaths have fallen by nearly 50 percent; and murders are down by almost 50 percent. That's a great record for Jay [Jason; White House correction] and for the Governor.

Despite Jay Jones's calls for murdering his opponents, the Democrat candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor, Abigail Spanberger and Ghazala Hashmi, still endorse him 100 percent. Abigail Spanberger still endorses him, which is not, I don't think, very good politically, but you never know. Let's see how it all turns out, but I think it's a disaster.

Spanberger wants Virginia to have a promurder attorney general—think of it, somebody that calls for the death of his children; forget about him—his children and him—which would be a disaster for the Commonwealth. And Spanberger and Jones will not keep your children safe.

Look, we have an incredible job—we've done an incredible job in Washington, DC, right next to you. DC is now one of the safest places there are—is in the country, and we were considered one of the most dangerous. And now it's safe. We put in our great National Guard. The job that they've done is legendary. Everybody is talking about it. People are going to restaurants. They're dining. The crime is down to practically nothing. And within another couple of weeks, it will be down—literally, we have no crime in Washington, DC, and it was a very dangerous place, many murders during the course of a year. Very, very dangerous.

The radical-left Democrats in the race are the—supporting something called "no-cash bail." And you know, crime in our country really started with the no-cash bail.

They support slashing penalties for violent criminals, and they support sanctuary cities to protect illegal alien gang members and everybody else that Biden allowed with open borders. So stupid. Hundreds of thousands of people pouring into our country. A total of probably—over his 4 years, they're saying 25 million—could be 25 million—many of them murderers—11,888 murders allowed. We're getting them out. Not easy, but we're getting them all out, and we're getting them out fast.

Spanberger will be also a catastrophe for your economy. She voted for the ruinous Biden policy that caused the worst inflation in American history—the worst we've ever had. We had inflation at a level that we've never seen before, and she was a disaster on the economy. She didn't know anything.

But her big problem is going to be energy costs. Your energy costs are going to double and triple and quadruple.

You have a Governor that fought like hell. He called my office all the time: "We've got to get energy down. Energy." And I said, "Take it easy, Governor." [Laughter] You're not going to get—we're not going to get any of those calls.

But we have the energy down to the lowest point. You're going to have $2 gasoline very soon.

If she gets in, and others like her, you'll be at 5, 6, 7, 8 dollars a gallon, but you're almost down to 2 dollars right now, which is so different from the 4½ dollars, 4 dollars, 3½ dollars that you had with Biden.

But they're going to raise your taxes, and the crime will be rampant. The crime will be totally horrible. They'll be protecting the violent perpetrators. They'll be protecting the violent people that caused the crime.

But Republicans will bring back everything that you want. You're going to have crime way down. You're going to have energy way down. Your taxes are going to be way down, and you're going to lead a great life again.

So I just want to thank—you know, before I get off, I have to tell you that your State has made such progress with a great Governor—he's a great guy too, but a great Governor—and we don't want to blow that. They can blow it in 6 months.

And unfortunately, that's one of the reasons that Glenn is working so hard. He doesn't want that to happen. So, get out and vote tomorrow for Jason Miyares—very—so important—and the Republicans up and down the ballot. We have Republicans up and down.

And remember—and I keep saying it: The crime is a disaster for the Democrats. It's a horrible, weak spot. But the thing that you see, maybe more than anything: Your energy costs are going to go—they're not going to be sustainable. What they want to do with energy is not sustainable, whereas we're cutting energy. We're going to get it down in half. They're going to have it go up two, three, and maybe even four times. You're not even going to believe it.

The polls will open from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. So go to swampthevoteUSA.com for more information about where to vote, and get out and vote for these unbelievable, great Republican candidates up and down the line.

And I want to thank you, Virginia, for being so good to me. We have had a—just a great relationship from day one, and I'm always there to take care of that wonderful place that I spend so much time in.

And I'll give it back to the Governor. And, Governor, again, thank you for doing such a great job, and thank you for being such a great Governor.

Thank you very much, Glenn.

NOTE: The President spoke at 7:12 p.m. via teleconference from the White House. In his remarks, he referred to Gov. Glenn A. Youngkin of Virginia; former Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates Christopher T. Gilbert and his sons Grant and Jack; and Democratic candidate for Virginia lieutenant governor State Senator Ghazala Hashmi. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on November 6. Audio was not available for verification of the content of these remarks.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), Remarks During Telerally for Virgina Republican Gubernatorial Candidate Winsome Earle-Sears and Attorney General Candidate Jason S. Miyares Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/385890
