Title: Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Aboard Air Force One En Route to Avoca, Pennsylvania
Date: December 09, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-exchange-with-reporters-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-avoca-pennsylvania

Representative Jasmine F. Crockett

Q. Mr. President, what's your reaction to Jasmine Crockett jumping in the Senate primary in Texas?

The President. Well, she's a low-IQ person. I can't imagine she wins. Maybe she'll get the Democrat nomination, but I think it's a gift to Republicans. She's a terrible Representative. I watched her for the last 2 years. I can't even believe she's a politician, actually.

Hi, Brian [Brian Glenn, Real America's Voice].

Federal Reserve System Leadership

Q. Mr. President, will you be holding a final round of interviews for Fed Chair this week? There was some reporting you'd be meeting with the Governor—Fed Governor Kevin Marsh—former Fed Governor Marsh—or Warsh—Kevin Warsh?

The President. We're going to be looking at a couple of different people, but I have a pretty good idea who I want.

Q. Will there be meetings this week?

The President. You're going to have to take it easy with that thing. You know? It's a Government plane, but I like to take care of it.

Q. Will there be meetings this week? Interviews this week?

The President. Uh——

[At this point, a bathroom door opened behind the President.]

Hello. [Laughter] Somebody is in there. Come on out. [Laughter]

Heath Care Reform Efforts

Q. Mr. President, Senators Cassidy and Crapo have introduced a bill to create health savings accounts to replace——

The President. Yes.

Q. ——Obamacare subsidies.

The President. That's good.

Q. Do you support that bill?

The President. Well, I like the concept. I don't want to give the insurance companies any money. They've been ripping off the public for years. Obamacare is a scam to make the insurance company rich—companies rich. And they have made—I mean, you look, 14- to 17-hundred-dollar increase—hundred-percent increase over the last number of years.

There's really few things that have gone up like insurance companies. They're getting numbers and money like nobody has ever seen before. Billions and billions of dollars is paid directly to insurance companies. We're not going to do that anymore.

I believe Obamacare was set up to take care of insurance companies, not to take care of the American public.

Q. Do you want Republicans to vote for that bill tomorrow—or this week?

The President. I love the idea of money going to the people, not to the insurance companies—going directly to the people—it can be in the health savings account; it can be a number of different ways—and the people go out and buy their own insurance, which can be, really, much better health insurance, health care.

Tax Code Reform

Q. Mr. President, I was with you in Vegas when you had no tax on tips——

The President. Right.

Q. ——to help the hospitality industry. Would you ever consider no tax on gambling winnings, considering that might be another stage to save American taxes?

The President. I haven't been asked that question in a long time. No tax on gambling winnings, I don't know. We have no tax on tips, we have no tax on Social Security, and we have no tax on overtime.

No tax on gambling winnings? I don't know about that. [Laughter] I'm going to have to think about that.

Q. [Inaudible]

The President. I think it's better to go up and maybe take our seats. This is a pretty rough flight.

[Air Force One experienced some turbulence.]

Q. Whoa!

The President. Bye, everybody.

Q. We'll chat on the way back.

The President. Bye, everybody. I hope to see you again. I'd better get out of here. So long. [Laughter]

[Air Force One experienced more turbulence.]

Q. Whoa!
