Title: Remarks and an Exchange With Reporters Prior to Departure From West Palm Beach, Florida
Date: November 16, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-and-exchange-with-reporters-prior-departure-from-west-palm-beach-florida

The President. Okay, everybody. We had a great weekend. From an economic standpoint, our prices are coming down very substantially on groceries and things. They're already at a much lower level than they were with the last administration. And we worked on it this weekend, and you're going to see some of the items that were a little bit higher—they were lower than the last administration, but a little bit higher—we're going to have some little price reductions, and, in some cases, some pretty good ones.

They use the "affordability" word. The affordability is much, much better with us. And again, I go to Walmart and other companies, and in every case, it's about 25 percent that a meal—a Thanksgiving meal and surroundings are 25 percent lower than it was under the Biden administration. That's a big fact. And that comes from Walmart and others that do that. Okay?

Any questions?

Venezuela

Q. Any update on Venezuela, Mr. President? On Venezuela, updates?

The President. No. No, update on Venezuela.

Q. With the designation of that cartel associated with Maduro, does that mean that the U.S. government can target Maduro's assets or infrastructure inside Venezuela?

The President. It allows us to do that, but we haven't said we're going to do that. And we may be discussing—we may be having some discussions with Maduro, and we'll see how that turns out. They would like——

Q. Mr. President——

The President. They would like to talk.

Department of Justice Files Concerning Deceased Convicted Sex Offender Jeffrey Epstein/Representative Thomas H. Massie

Q. Mr. President, Representative Massie says he's concerned that the Epstein probe you are calling for could be a smoke screen to block the release of more files. Is that the case?

The President. Well, I don't want to talk about it because fake news like you—you're a terrible reporter—fake news like you, they just keep bringing that up to deflect from the tremendous success of the Trump administration. So a guy like Massie, his poll numbers are showing he's at 6-percent approval rating right now. And we call him Rand Paul, Jr. because he never—he never votes for the Republican Party.

So they're using Jeffrey Epstein as a deflection from the tremendous success that we're having as a party.

[At this point, several reporters began asking questions at once.]

Venezuela/R

Q. Mr. President, on Venezuela, you said they want to talk. You said Venezuela wants to talk. What does that mean?

The President. Venezuela would like to talk. What does it mean? You tell me. I don't know.

Q. Do you want to talk to them?

Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene

The President. I would talk—I talk to anybody. I talk to you, right? I talk to anybody. We'll see what happens.

Q. Marjorie Taylor Greens says her life could be at danger because of the rhetoric.

The President. Her life is in danger? Who's that?

Q. Marjorie Taylor Greene. She says the——

The President. Marjorie Traitor Greene. I don't think her life is in danger. I don't think—frankly, I don't think anybody cares about her.

Okay, what about you?

Tariff Revenue/National Economy/Health Insurance Reforms

Q. On affordability of health care. Are you negotiating—are you negotiating with lawmakers on health care ahead of a vote next month?

The President. I am. We're negotiating with lawmakers. And I've had personal talks with some Democrats—I can't tell you who they are—I just don't want to do that; it's not fair to them—about paying large amounts of dollars back to the people. You know, this was my idea. It came up during that—you know, oftentimes in times—under times of stress, like the shutdown, you come up with good—great ideas that you wouldn't have thought of before. The insurance companies are making a fortune. Their stock is up over 1,000 percent over a short period of time. They are taking in hundreds of billions of dollars, and they're not really putting it back—certainly not like they should.

So, when I see this, and when I've seen this over the last pretty short period of time, I said, "Why do we—why don't we just pay this money directly to the people of our country and let them buy their own health insurance?" And you know, I made that statement, and I made it a little bit cavalierly, but it sounded good. And everybody has picked it up, including Democrats.

And we—I am talking to some Democrats right now about doing that. People love it. We're going to take the money—well, if it gets approved, we're going to take the money, we're going to pay it back to the people of our country to go out and buy health insurance.

Now, they can put it in a health account. We can do it a lot of different ways. But they buy their own health insurance. They can negotiate price. And it's going to be locked, so they can't go out and buy a Cadillac. They can go out and buy health insurance.

Q. [Inaudible]—Tucker Carlson——

Russia/Iran

Q. On Russia, Mr. President. Is it time for Congress to move legislation that puts pressure on Russia and puts pressure on Putin?

The President. Well, I hear they're doing that, and that's okay with me. They're passing legislation or putting—the Republicans are putting in legislation that—very tough—it's sanctioning, et cetera, et cetera, on any country doing business with Russia. They may add Iran to that, as you know. I suggested it.

So any country that does business with Russia will be very severely sanctioned. We may add Iran to the formula.

Yes.

Political Commentator Tucker Carlson

Q. Mr. President, Tucker Carlson recently had a friendly interview with anti-Semite Nick Fuentes.

The President. Who did?

Q. Tucker Carlson. What role do you think Tucker Carlson should play in the Republican Party and the conservative movement going forward?

The President. Well, I found him to be good. I mean, he said good things about me over the years, and sees—I think he's good. We've had some good interviews. I did an interview with him. We were at 300 million hits. You know that.

Look, I can't tell him——

News Media/Political Activist Nicholas J. Fuentes/Mayor-Elect Zohran K. Mamdani of New York City

Q. But should he be platforming Nick Fuentes? Should he be——

The President. Would you let me finish my statement? You are the worst. You're with Bloomberg, right? You are the worst. I don't know why they even have you.

We've had some great interviews with Tucker Carlson, but you can't tell him who to interview. I mean, if he wants to interview Nick Fuentes—I don't know much about him, but if he wants to do it, get the word out. Let him—you know, people have to decide. Ultimately, people have to decide.

The mayor of New York, I will say, would like to meet with us, and we'll work something out. But he—he would like to come to Washington and meet, and we'll work something out. We want to see everything work out well for New York.

Political Activist Nicholas J. Fuentes

Q. You yourself had dinner with Nick Fuentes at Mar-a-Lago a few years ago.

The President. Yeah.

Q. What role should he play in the conservative movement?

The President. Well, I didn't know he was coming, and he was with, as you know, somebody: Kanye. And Kanye asked if he could have dinner, and he brought Nick. I didn't know Nick at the time. And he did. He came, and—along with a few other people. He brought a few people with him.

Meeting people, talking to people, like for somebody like Tucker, that's what they do. You know, people are controversial. Some are. Some aren't. I'm not controversial, so I like it that way.

Venezuela

Q. On Venezuela, are you discussing options with Congress? Are you going to Congress to discuss potential options you're considering?

The President. We like to keep Congress involved. I mean, we're stopping drug dealers and drugs to come—from coming into our country. And I actually told Marco and some of the people—our Secretary of State—he's doing a great job, by the way—I said: "Go to Congress and let them know we're not letting drugs come through Mexico. We're not letting them come through Venezuela. And let Congress know about it." We don't have to get their approval, but I think letting them know is good.

The only thing I don't want them to do is leak information that's very important and confidential and may put our military at risk, or whoever is doing—you know, CIA, military, et cetera. But I did say—I said: "Go and see Congress. See the Representatives that we're supposed to be seeing, and be open about it." If they say, "We don't want you to stop drugs from coming into the country," I don't think that would be good.

Yes.

U.S. Drug Interdiction Efforts/Venezuela/Illegal Immigration/Border Security/Inflation

Q. Are any other countries committed to helping the U.S. with Venezuela, or is all our actions still solo?

The President. Yes, we have great support, because it's all about drugs. Well, in Venezuela's case, it's about drugs, and it's also about thousands—hundreds of thousands of people that they've released into our country. And some are gang members from Tren de Aragua. Some are drug—many are drug dealers. Some are murderers.

So, in the case of Venezuela, it's about—it's—the prison population. Their almost entire prison population was released into the United States. You know what that means? Their prison population was released into the United States. And we're getting it out. We're doing an amazing job. We have a strong border now. We have everything. Our country is doing so well.

But what the Biden administration did to our country should never be forgotten. And the single worst thing they did is allow 20 or 25 million dollars—people to pour into our country, people from prisons, drug dealers, mental institutions, bad people, gang members. To allow that to happen to the United States, totally unchecked and unvetted, should never be forgotten. What they've done to our country is a very bad thing.

But we are correcting it. We have strong borders now. We have a great economy. The prices are coming down. The Democrats like to use the word "affordability," but their affordability was terrible.

The problem with the Democrats: They lie. They do it so well. They talk about affordability. But I'm the one that's getting the prices down. As an example, they had the highest inflation in the history of our country. I have it down now to a normal level, and it's going down further.

Thank you very much, everybody.
