Title: White House Press Release - ICYMI: President Trump Talks Economy in McDonald's Speech
Date: November 18, 2025
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/white-house-press-release-icymi-president-trump-talks-economy-mcdonalds-speech

Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump delivered remarks at the McDonald's Impact Summit — where he laid out the progress that has been made in undoing the economic devastation of the Biden era and charted a path forward to make sure all Americans realize prosperity and opportunity.

Here's what you missed:

"I'm honored to stand before you as the very first former McDonald's fry cook ever to become President of the United States." (Watch)

"My pledge to every family and every small business is that I will not rest until you are richer, stronger, more successful, happier, until you've gotten a piece of the American Dream… That begins with making America affordable." (Watch)

"There's still a lot of work to do — and we're making tremendous progress. 1.9 million more American-born workers are employed today than when I took office… Wages for hourly workers are rising at the fastest pace in 60 years." (Watch)

"I'm fighting every day to support small businesses like yours and the citizens that we all serve — and together, we're fighting for an economy where everyone can win, from the cashier starting her first job, to the franchisee opening his first location, to the young family in a drive-thru line." (Watch)

"The Biden Administration started the affordability crisis — and my Administration is ending it… In the past six months, the price of breakfast items has fallen 14%, bread prices are down, dairy prices are down; the price of eggs has declined 86% since March." (Watch)

"While Democrats wanted to give Americans the largest tax hike in history, in July, I proudly gave you the largest tax cuts in American history and signed the One Big Beautiful Bill into law. That includes No Tax on Tips, No Tax on Overtime, and No Tax on Social Security for our great seniors. That is a big deal." (Watch)

"We slashed more than $1 trillion worth of regulations, burdens on the U.S. economy — in particular, on businesses and people that employ people. Combining our regulatory and tax cuts, we've reduced the effective burden on franchisees by more than 37%." (Watch)

"In my first term, I also stopped a mortal threat to the franchise business model by terminating Obama's infamous 'joint employer rule…' As long as I'm President, I'll always defend your right to run your own small businesses, and do it well." (Watch)

"As you may have heard, I'm also one of your all-time most loyal customers… While other politicians fly around on campaign planes stocked with expensive catering, on Trump Force One… we serve only McDonald's almost every time." (Watch)

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), White House Press Release - ICYMI: President Trump Talks Economy in McDonald's Speech Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/379116
