Title: Remarks Prior to a Meeting With President Guy Parmelin of Switzerland and an Exchange With Reporters in Davos, Switzerland
Date: January 21, 2026
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-prior-meeting-with-president-guy-parmelin-switzerland-and-exchange-with-reporters

President Trump. Please.

President Parmelin. So thank you, Mr. President. It's a pleasure for me to receive you in Davos. Davos, without you, it's not truly Davos. It's a——

President Trump. I agree. [Laughter]

President Parmelin. The President—the President of U.S.——

President Trump. [Inaudible]

President Parmelin. ——is something special, really. And we appreciate that you are coming.

You know the colleagues.

President Trump. Yes.

President Parmelin. I—we—[inaudible]—some time. And I would like—I know personally, Mr.—State Secretary Bessent; Mr. Lutnick; Mr. Greer, we have a meeting tomorrow; and Mr. Rubio.

And thank you for appointing in Switzerland, as Ambassador, Ambassador Gingrich. She do a real, very good job.

President Trump. Yes.

President Parmelin. And I think it's possible to boost our relationships the next year.

Mr. President, another time, thank you.

President Trump. Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. And I will say, you do have a great Ambassador. And she will—you know, she keeps her husband very much in line. She doesn't—[laughter]—she doesn't play games. Right, Newt? She keeps him in line. He's over here also.

I want to thank my team for having worked out a very fair deal with Switzerland, and it's an honor. I speak about you often. You're a great country, a beautiful country.

You do make great watches too. That I can say. There's nobody like you for watches, which is a big deal.

But I appreciate the treatment we've been given, and we will always reciprocate. And thank you very much for having us.

President Parmelin. Thank you. It's a pleasure.

President Trump. Thank you. Thank you.

President Parmelin. And with your team, we have good relations. We are working hard to finalize the agreement. We have this joint agreement that I am optimistic that we can go forward. And the investment pledge, the private-sector promise, I think on the way.

And we already see this unbalance you mentioned during your speech is actually on correction. It's actually, we have the last statistic, a surplus 8.8 U.S. dollars in the favor of U.S.

But, at the end, what is important for me and for the two countries, it's a win-win perspective. And I think my team and your team are working hard to find something very, very well.

President Trump. Very good.

Is there really a surplus? Because that's a very unusual thing with Switzerland.

U.S. Trade Representative Jamieson L. Greer. I think in the last couple of months, it started to reverse in the other way.

President Trump. Wow. That's unusual.

Ambassador Greer. And when they bring their——

President Trump. That's never happened before.

Ambassador Greer. And when they bring their factories——

President Trump. I've very proud of that. I'm very proud of that, actually.

U.S. Secretary of Commerce Howard W. Lutnick. But when they bring their pharmaceuticals——

Ambassador Greer. Yes.

Secretary Lutnick. ——to America, then that will settle it.

Ambassador Greer. Yep.

President Trump. Yes, that's a very big thing.

Secretary Lutnick. That's the big thing.

President Trump. We're bringing—all pharmaceuticals are coming into America, so it's really a big thing.

Press, do you have any questions, please?

President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine

Q. Sir, are you going to meet Zelenskyy today or tomorrow?

U.S. Secretary of State Marco A. Rubio. Tomorrow.

President Trump. I believe it's tomorrow.

White House Chief of Staff Susan Wiles. Tomorrow.

Secretary Rubio. Yes.

Q. It's tomorrow? We just wanted to clarify that.

President Trump. Yes.

Q. Thank you, sir.

President Trump. Okay?

Switzerland is a great place, and we appreciate being here.

Thank you all very much. Thank you.
