Title: White House Press Release - President Trump Delivers his 2026 State of the Union Address
Date: February 25, 2026
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/white-house-press-release-president-trump-delivers-his-2026-state-the-union-address

During the State of the Union, President Trump awarded U.S. Army Chief Warrant Officer Eric Slover the Congressional Medal of Honor for extraordinary acts of heroism, including injuries sustained during the capture of indicted narcoterrorist Nicolás Maduro.

President Trump welcomed the Gold Medal-winning Team USA Men’s Olympic Hockey team into the House Chamber during his address.

Sage Blair, a guest of President Trump, was pushed by her school district to undergo a sex change. Because of bullying, she ran away from home and was sex trafficked through three states. She has since reunited with her family, identifies as a woman, and again goes by her given name, Sage.

Also invited was Dalilah Coleman, a first grader who was severely injured in a car accident caused by an illegal alien driving a semitruck with a CDL. First Lady Melania Trump presented the Congressional Medal of Honor to Retired Navy pilot Capt. Royce Williams—a World War II, Korean War, and Vietnam War veteran—who, after decades of his story being classified, was awarded the Medal for his actions during the Korean War. President Trump announced that Gold Medal winner Connor Hellebuyck (pictured bottom right), goaltender for the Team USA Olympic Men’s Hockey team, will be awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States.

Gary and Evalea Beckstrom, parents of West Virginia National Guardsmen Sarah Beckstrom, were invited by President Trump to the gallery to be presented with a posthumous Purple Heart on behalf of their daughter who was tragically killed outside the White House defending our capital.

A guest of the First Lady, Everest Nevraumont is a 11-year-old student at the Alpha School, which is based in Austin, Texas. Everest participates in AI-powered, personalized learning through her school.

Megan Hemhauser is a bartender, waits tables at night, & homeschools her two children. Her husband works 10 to 15 hrs of overtime per week operating heavy equipment. Her family. They will receive more than $5,000 extra per year thanks to the Working Families Tax Cuts.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), White House Press Release - President Trump Delivers his 2026 State of the Union Address Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/392766
