Title: White House Press Release - Voter ID Is Overwhelmingly Popular with Literally Everyone — Except Democrat Politicians
Date: February 10, 2026
Source: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/white-house-press-release-voter-id-overwhelmingly-popular-with-literally-everyone-except

President Donald J. Trump has been unequivocal: Nothing is more fundamental than the integrity and security of our elections. That's why the Trump Administration has repeatedly called on Congress to pass the SAVE America Act — commonsense legislation that requires voters to present photo ID and implements other critical measures to protect federal elections from fraud and abuse.

Yet, despite overwhelming popular support across every demographic, Radical Left Democrat politicians continue to block these reforms, placing partisan politics above the clear will of the American people — including their own voters — and above the basic security of our elections.

FACT: Voter ID is extremely popular with Americans.
Polling has consistently shown strong majorities — including among Democrats, independents, Whites, Blacks, and Latinos — support voter ID requirements.

Pew Research Center: 83% of Americans favor requiring all voters to show government-issued photo ID to vote, including 95% of Republicans and 71% of Democrats. Just 16% of Americans are in opposition.

Gallup: 84% of Americans support requiring photo ID to vote, including 98% of Republicans, 84% of independents, and 67% of Democrats. Separately, 83% support requiring proof of citizenship when registering to vote for the first time.

Additional surveys, including from Napolitan News Service and The Center Square, consistently show extraordinary support for voter ID.

CNN reporter Harry Enten: "The bottom line is this: Voter ID is NOT controversial in this country. A photo ID to vote is NOT controversial in this country. It is not controversial by party and it is not controversial by race. The vast majority of Americans agree."

NBC Nightly News anchor Tom Llamas: "Voter ID rules do have wide public support, but the vast majority of Democrats on Capitol Hill oppose them."

This isn't a close call. It's time for Congress to act — and for Democrat politicians to stop standing in the way of election security.

Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), White House Press Release - Voter ID Is Overwhelmingly Popular with Literally Everyone — Except Democrat Politicians Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/386214
